# Slack Channel Dump
# Channel ID: C0659G4HAF9
# Generated: 2025-10-22T20:05:41.687851
# Total Messages: 115

[2025-09-23T03:18:40.556459] U04SNH8Q39P: Hi, May I ask you to for review of <https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/automotive/contcert/contcert-validator-config/-/merge_requests/590> ? It is simple patch to remove validator.
[2025-09-23T05:20:52.934589] Michael Ho: Hi team, our colleague, Lumir, from over in the Python in RHEL team wanted to test run a RHEL workflow presentation about his packages tomorrow with me before a bigger presentation in the RHEL space. I invited the team to join if anyone would like to hear about how they're developing their package in the RHEL space. Although Python is not in our scope, maybe this helps broaden some insight into the RHEL development workflow :meow_smile:  You'll have an invite in your emails titled "Workflow sharing session [dry run]".
[2025-09-23T11:11:35.555169] U016DB0CPT8: Hi All
[2025-09-23T11:12:22.105829] U016DB0CPT8: Red Hat 101: Agentic AI live session is going on and it's very interesting, in case anyone missed.
[2025-09-23T11:12:42.884809] U016DB0CPT8: <https://www.google.com/url?q=https://redhat.brandlive.com/Red-Hat-101-Agentic-AI/en&amp;sa=D&amp;source=calendar&amp;ust=1759067469507809&amp;usg=AOvVaw3CygKPNU4YlauQ8ioHawOm|https://www.google.com/url?q=https://redhat.brandlive.com/Red-Hat-101-Agentic-AI/en&amp;[…]alendar&amp;ust=1759067469507809&amp;usg=AOvVaw3CygKPNU4YlauQ8ioHawOm>
[2025-09-26T00:08:42.068619] Advait Shailesh Gupte: Polarion upgrade time has been changed to 4 PM EST tomorrow Friday, Sept 26.  Change was made so that I can have Siemen's tech support on call and ready to help me debug.
From: Brian Murray
Sender: Slack Conversation
FYI <https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C05HQU64709/p1758832044569259>
[2025-09-28T23:40:19.048349] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-09-29T00:17:13.411709] Nisha Saini: Hi All,
The validator fails to clone <https://pkgs.devel.redhat.com/cgit/tests/distribution/> since 27th Sept. I also tried to manually clone on my local but I am also getting error. Any suggestions who will have more info regarding this project?
[2025-09-29T08:53:20.327889] Fabrizio Tronci: hi all, does anyone of you know why this manual validator <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-31966|VROOM-31966> for the glibc compiler is not shown in the report?
[2025-09-29T08:56:28.857519] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-09-30T03:00:08.483639] Bot-B06RQ11G: Reminder : Please make sure that you put <https://issues.redhat.com/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=18548|your items in review or review other items> well before the Sprint closes this week. Thanks, team!
[2025-09-30T04:00:13.709969] Bot-B06J5130: Reminder : Please add your demos for tomorrow! :slightly_smiling_face:
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HDTZ-dyRO9ksmelWVilXylYmrq8Txu5jw2h0UnoQTwE/edit>. Thanks, team!
[2025-09-30T04:59:34.583859] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-09-30T05:08:00.266099] U04P6AQ9V5X: Hi all, Who can help to review and approve this deployment <https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/automotive/contcert/contcert-validator-config/-/merge_requests/591|MR>?  Thanks in advance:pray:  (Today is the last day before Chinese holiday, so urgent)
[2025-09-30T05:10:49.267389] U04P6AQ9V5X: 
[2025-09-30T05:59:33.248349] U04P6AQ9V5X: Thanks <@U04AGQD0K8D> <@U04P10NE5A5> Who can help to merge it? <@U04JRTQ4LHK> Could you help to merge the above MR? :pray::pray:
[2025-09-30T06:04:38.348069] Michael Ho: I'll merge it but the comment is in a weird place due to the prod_ready flag (actually I think this is prod_ready, as it's relevant for GA submission)
[2025-09-30T06:04:41.910619] Michael Ho: But lets merge and fix in post
[2025-09-30T06:05:01.405699] Michael Ho: Merged
[2025-09-30T06:07:19.451879] U04P6AQ9V5X: Thanks:meow_heart1:  The implement validator is for rhiovs 2.0. right?
[2025-09-30T06:31:17.509729] Michael Ho: I thought it's 1.0, but not sure, <@U04P10NE5A5>?
[2025-09-30T07:11:37.665739] John Dennis: It is for 2.0 :pray::skin-tone-2: 
[2025-09-30T08:31:00.559339] Iker Galardi: <@U04JRTQ4LHK> it is non-blocking. This validator will fail in pre-prod run and will only fix when all the tests downstream in QE repo replaces dmesg uses with journal plugin. Actually it's way beyond that. Unless all the tests that refer the top level fmf in the QE repo switch to journal the validator will keep failing
[2025-09-30T08:32:35.965309] Iker Galardi: IMO it will take a considerable time till that happens. Just some background
[2025-09-30T08:34:41.675569] Iker Galardi: We have a justification for it, based on the workaround ticket outcome <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-30919>
[2025-09-30T08:46:38.974599] Michael Ho: Thanks for explaining!
[2025-09-30T09:20:49.554159] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-09-30T09:31:08.237179] Ryan Smith: Hi everyone, just a heads up to those doing validator triage and what not - `glibc-revdep-preload-modules` ran yesterday and completed with a `Failure` result. All I can share from it, though, are the logs from Splunk because somehow the outputs are gone. We're still investigating this, so more to come.
[2025-09-30T15:20:14.102939] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-10-01T09:24:00.159839] Ozan Unsal: :rotating_light: *Heads up: Migration Notice: Renaming in-vehicle-os-9 to in-vehicle-os* :rotating_light:

As part of the enablement work for RHIVOS-2, we will be updating the S3 bucket path currently used in the Toolchain portal:  <https://rhivos.auto-toolchain.redhat.com/>

*What is changing?*
• The existing directory *`in-vehicle-os-9`* will be renamed to *`in-vehicle-os`*.
    ◦ Before: <https://rhivos.auto-toolchain.redhat.com/in-vehicle-os-9/>
    ◦ *After*: <https://rhivos.auto-toolchain.redhat.com/>*in-vehicle-os/*
• This change is needed to ensure that RHIVOS-2 builds can be populated in the same directory alongside RHIVOS-1 builds.
• All services and components that reference *`in-vehicle-os-9`* must be updated to reference *`in-vehicle-os`* to avoid broken dependencies.
*Impact:*
• If your repositories or scripts hardcode the path *`in-vehicle-os-9`*, you will need to update them.
• Starting *early next week*, we are going to support both *`in-vehicle-os-9`* and *`in-vehicle-os`* but later *`in-vehicle-os-9`* will be deprecated and no longer maintained.
*Action Required:*
• Please review your repositories and adjust any references to use *`in-vehicle-os`* instead of *`in-vehicle-os-9`* before the deprecation date.
*Why this change?*
This update standardizes the naming convention and ensures RHIVOS-2 builds are aligned under a unified *`in-vehicle-os`* directory with RHIVOS-1.
Thank you for making the necessary adjustments. If you have any questions or concerns, please reach out via this thread or in the <#C04JDFLHJN6|> channel.
[2025-10-01T12:45:53.225569] Lei Wang: *Here’s more to celebrate!* :smile:
Congratulations to *<@U04FTPUGJH1>* and *<@U04NNFWH45S>* on their well-deserved promotions to *Senior* and *Principal Software Engineer*!! :partying_face::tada::beers:
We’re lucky to have you on the FuSA/FoA team—thank you for all the amazing work, professionalism, and positive energy you bring!!:meow_love::car::red-hat:
From: Lei Wang
Sender: Slack Conversation
<!channel> Also sharing the good news here <https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C04QDH5FZFG/p1759333240674249>
Big congrats <@U04FTPUGJH1> <@U04NNFWH45S>!! :clinking_glasses::party-blob::meow_love:
[2025-10-01T12:56:22.941779] Lei Wang: *Today also marks <@U04JRTQ4LHK>'s 4-year anniversary!* You've been a true asset to our program and the company.
Congratulations, and we wish you many more years of success here in Red Hat!!!:confetti_ball::car::red-hat::clinking_glasses:
From: Lei Wang
Sender: Slack Conversation
<!channel> Apologies for the celebration overload... but here’s one more for <@U04JRTQ4LHK>!! :smile::partying_face:
<https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C04QDH5FZFG/p1759333976374579>
[2025-10-02T01:05:50.639329] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-10-02T07:00:49.680519] Michael Ho: Why Retrieval-Augmented Generation Won’t Survive the Context Revolution and the End of Chunking, Embeddings, and Rerankers as We Know Them.
Title: The RAG Obituary: Killed by Agents, Buried by Context Windows
<@U04P10NE5A5> and others, I think this is a great read and lines up with what I've been mentioning about how impressed I am with Claude Code and why RAG might not be the only solution to managing data for LLMs: <https://www.nicolasbustamante.com/p/the-rag-obituary-killed-by-agents>
[2025-10-02T09:08:51.006329] U04SNH8Q39P: Hi, there is new problem with our infrastructure. <http://download.eng.bos.redhat.com> is not available and it has impact not only on <https://rhivos-dashboard.auto-toolchain.redhat.com/reports/1.0.0_GA/2025-10-02_07_19_18/report-1.0.0_GA-2025-10-02_07_19_18.html|validator daily run> where a lot of results are missing or failing, but also on merge request workflow, because <https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/automotive/contcert/foa-validators/code-review/-/jobs/41248314|unit tests> depend on that. See: <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHELBLD-17379>. Please if you have better idea where to problem report or who might be good person to contact, please speak up.
[2025-10-02T10:16:22.128329] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-10-03T07:06:19.601999] U04SNH8Q39P: <!here> Yesterday we updated foa-lib to resolve issue with broken URL. The patch was released in foa-lib v0.20.0 . I believe that the release wasn't accompanied by auto update of repositories. May I ask you for help? Without propagating this patch, our validators runs will continue to fail and we cannot update production run.
[2025-10-03T08:41:31.118109] U04SNH8Q39P: Hi, I am looking for someone who can prepare evidence for manual validator: <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33433|VROOM-33433> Validator Failure: gcc-testsuite-in-build-logs (gcc-11.5.0-5.el9)
[2025-10-06T11:54:56.272669] Michael Ho: If anyone sees some issues related to the deprecation of <https://rhivos.auto-toolchain.redhat.com/in-vehicle-os-9/> in lieu of <https://rhivos.auto-toolchain.redhat.com/in-vehicle-os>, give me a ping. Our toolchain friends are using a HTTP Redirect to handle the deprecation which can cause issues with scripts invoking curl.
[2025-10-06T17:40:34.609019] Lei Wang: Hi <!channel> Some of you may have heard that Jenny Severance is retiring. Here's a card that has been created to collect our wishes for her, in case you'd like to sign it. : )
<https://www.groupgreeting.com/sign/ef61ab3cec46f9a>
[2025-10-07T05:28:59.966919] Iker Galardi: <@U04JRTQ4LHK> we are running tests on RHIVOS RC3 images for our GA release, or has it changed?
[2025-10-07T05:29:30.522619] Michael Ho: RHIVOS-1.0.0-RC3 is RHIVOS-1.0.0 (afaik it's a copy+paste job). So yes, afaik.
[2025-10-07T05:32:39.722119] Iker Galardi: Thanks for confirming. I was digging into one the tmt validator failure which makes TF call and was timing out due to TF stuck and it seems there is some problem with that image since it was old and could't be found
[2025-10-07T05:33:02.437559] Michael Ho: Try RHIVOS-1.0.0
[2025-10-07T05:33:26.232619] Michael Ho: But this also might be due to the url changes going on. See <#C08CRGE1LKZ|>.
[2025-10-07T05:34:58.131479] Iker Galardi: That's the one I am using , but that image is old and TF is not picking that image since it's > 125 days. Looks like this was the problem for weekend CTC failures, atleast for the tests run on VM
[2025-10-07T05:43:09.515599] Michael Ho: Time to ask <#C04JDFLHJN6|>
[2025-10-07T19:16:07.559889] Michael Ho: &gt; We’ve detected that your account is regularly making authenticated requests to the <http://GitLab.com|GitLab.com> API in excess of our published rate limit of <https://gslink.gitlab.com/ls/click?upn=u001.Z-2FLxiSxBJrdCYEDao1-2B4O0w6VWorXbTPAGlGVekwo7j17yUOiZR-2B-2BrruSHoz2cvmVFwQW-2FxObSat0LEL3mihFxqeCKGBCDeg95f07CqF-2BEI-3DJFYY_3Va5eXzMcsAFZ7WxyK6EESay-2BFwdAmv0ezWJ-2F3JaFTjyIAedBOiOgtD7isaOtmuA2PNkJlPwE0avzy39M9A8LNLVBB1s0khXJg6s4s8ukUSPOvloFNqw-2B9ZSga2357uXVczjVioUmnmalvQQA8FMcw-2BnyEFGMV3kbPGoAQkXcgiOu6nkKv-2BZXV7rd-2FplnHaa-2Bp-2FT6H48Bic6kmAz3QNuxzrWTUM431Dr-2BPeiWnVwvNPmrFFTeNu1uQ6PhTdn88HlyXynKu-2BjQnzhH52czt18Bv3SeKwpWWZ0NL1mcgoiJoWMAqzn2UKlQ3Js0iYRTPDIdIC6kOUYKho-2BDgCIMuW-2FaqHhUV9mXUhQCD2hEysrshzRCMtKxWLSYPc5xkjyC7PKoKLrmRuUoX3PnL-2BS8MvK-2BFn7OcMOG8nu7tAaaUf9IdT7pR0SgA9Qt9MUtrUDbCiKmnbRlrTF3T1cn-2BpOIDvKZGpPuirMQc2xCOWo0yLT7yrcpMRIQBroMWzMjaZLkf2O|2000 requests per minute>. Our logs show that over a week’s time, your account is making up to 100,000 requests in excess of the rate limit.
&gt; As a temporary grace period, we are currently allowing your account to make up to 8000 requests per minute. However, this grace period will end on *November 17, 2025*, when we will begin enforcing our published rate limit of 2000 requests per minute.
Hey, we have a serious issue with our GitLab API usage. <@U04NNFWH45S> We may need to consider suspending the daily pre-prod runs until we reduce our API rate to avoid the incident getting bigger.
[2025-10-08T05:42:50.204469] U04NNFWH45S: Hi <@U04AGQD0K8D> <@U04P10NE5A5>, Fabrizio is asking why we do need <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32899|VROOM-32899> and what impact on the validator results it will have once implement. The validator is currently <https://rhivos-dashboard-prod.auto-toolchain.redhat.com/contcert/results/rhivos-1.0.0.20250930/kernel-automotive/kernel-automotive-5.14.0-570.518.16.1.16.el9_6iv/20250930T150112/tmt-tool-result-not-overridden|passing> in the production report, so the question is why we need this improvement.
[2025-10-08T09:12:03.046079] Tomas Golembiovsky: Speaking of Mr. Cache-lib, I came up with this proposal yesterday. It is about ready for review and suggestions from the team: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P3LqqKo3kwoDK-pXNnJ0M-fJ5Onz1dw7EnbuumzuzFY/edit?usp=sharing>
[2025-10-09T03:54:44.089279] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-10-10T00:55:52.001839] U04P6AQ9V5X: Hi good morning everyone!
<@U04JRTQ4LHK> <@U04P10NE5A5> I've looked at the related validator failure (<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33457|VROOM-33457>) for my deployment <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-30938|ticket>. It is closed since the validator is not marked as prod ready. (see, <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33457?focusedId=28188923&amp;page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-28188923|here>) And another <https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/automotive/tests/all/-/merge_requests/1104|MR> which is directly related to journald check plugin validator is still in process that is gonna replace dmesg with journal for top-level main.fmf in All-packages repos. What I want to ask is should we close the validator deployment ticket? Or still leave it there until all the problems are gone? Thx!
[2025-10-10T08:21:52.914989] U04QAEAG56V: Hi there, how do the LTP related validators work? I.e. how do they execute tests and how do they determine the test result?
[2025-10-10T12:25:13.680919] Michael Ho: I cleaned up the foa-lib readme and put some basic api documentation in place as a starting point to improve its architecture/layout: <https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/automotive/contcert/ancillary-libraries/foa-lib>
[2025-10-13T05:22:05.748469] Iker Galardi: Can I get some reviews <https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/automotive/contcert/foa-validators/product-build-analysis/-/merge_requests/49|here> please.
[2025-10-13T08:11:19.264119] Tomas Golembiovsky: :rotating_light: *RERC Outage notice:* Our internal PyPi repository will be down on Friday, Oct 17. See notice on <https://groups.google.com/a/redhat.com/g/outage-list/c/cm6xBpGCkEI|outage-lists> or <https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SPRE-1992|SPRE-1992> for details.
[2025-10-14T03:00:08.176379] Bot-B06RQ11G: Reminder : Please make sure that you put <https://issues.redhat.com/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=18548|your items in review or review other items> well before the Sprint closes this week. Thanks, team!
[2025-10-14T04:00:05.846719] Bot-B06J5130: Reminder : Please add your demos for tomorrow! :slightly_smiling_face:
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HDTZ-dyRO9ksmelWVilXylYmrq8Txu5jw2h0UnoQTwE/edit>. Thanks, team!
[2025-10-14T10:20:07.240469] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-10-16T09:35:15.974499] Lei Wang: *<!channel> October 11 marked <@U04NSVCMTBP>'s 4-year anniversary with Red Hat. Please join me in congratulating him on this important milestone. Happy anniversary, Advait!*:tada::partying_face: :meow_dance:
Thank you for all your hard work and great contributions to the program and our FuSa effort, and for always looking ahead to contribute to upcoming initiatives and priorities. We’re lucky to have you on our team! Wishing you many more years of success here at Red Hat!! :cheers::car::red-hat:
_(Apologies for the belated note — I missed the notification earlier due to PTO and some changes in my subscription list that disrupted my inbox..)_
  ↳ [2025-10-16T16:19:13.511539] Advait Shailesh Gupte: Thank you for the reminder, Lei! And thanks for the emojis, everyone. The time flies by :meow_smilesweat:
[2025-10-16T16:03:45.882679] USLACKBOT: 
[2025-10-17T07:23:15.234539] Iker Galardi: Happy Friday. I created a <https://docs.google.com/document/d/17BWjD-UDSp5T0BzYLzRxZWOxDRVETjemgY6Jaw0Rr2w/edit?tab=t.0|proposal/outline> for the template based documentation creation which I presented in our last team meeting. I am proposing this as one of the ways we can overcome our documentation tech debt. This will also make sure that we apply syntactic and semantic uniformity across validators.
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:11:04.100189] U03NPDKU3S8: Hi, can you please clarify what problem you are trying to solve?

I skimmed through the google doc and the MR and can't fully understand.

Specifically:
• Does the MR automatically handle/verify/whatever docstrings of functions other than initial_mode/continues_mode/entrypoint?
• Specifically e.g. `packages_not_in_core_rpm_list`, there?
• If yes, how/where?
• If not, is there a need to fix docstrings for initial_mode/continues_mode/entrypoint? What is it?
Thanks
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:29:29.433989] Iker Galardi: The MR has a tool which can be used to create docstring for all the validators in the repository, by providing metadata(metadata.json). This metadata can be created by the AI agent parsing the code or manually feed.
The tool follows a template which can be defined for the docstring to be created.
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:33:40.752159] Iker Galardi: We have a tech debt to create docstring for the validators and we also need have it uniform across the validators. I have tried to capture these in the doc.
<@U03NPDKU3S8> could you comment on the docs as well, the areas which are not clear or in the MR
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:35:05.131189] U03NPDKU3S8: &gt; We have a tech debt to create docstring for the validators
Do we? Do we consider detailed docstrings mandatory for all functions, including init/cont-mode/entrypoint?
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:36:49.187179] Iker Galardi: I believe we should create documentation for our code. But if we don't this tool will help to create it automatically :wink:
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:38:07.869899] Iker Galardi: &gt; I believe we should create documentation for our code
We do have some complex KPIs, in some of the valdiators where the documentation would help
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:38:34.259729] U03NPDKU3S8: I think that this is useless, if it only copies content from elsewhere (the template, or the existing validator doc, or whatever).
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:40:13.333009] Iker Galardi: The idea is to fully automate the docstring creation, does that sound useless to you?
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:40:27.792459] U03NPDKU3S8: Only for these 3 functions? Why do they need a docstring?
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:40:50.153169] U03NPDKU3S8: I might be missing something
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:41:33.668239] Iker Galardi: Not only for these 3 but for all of the validator code. The tool is not complete and I bet you haven't gone through the proposal doc completely :slightly_smiling_face:
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:44:17.693299] U03NPDKU3S8: I wrote:
&gt; I skimmed through the google doc
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:44:39.167789] U03NPDKU3S8: But then I looked at the MR and saw only these 3. So I am asking here...
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:45:10.463989] Iker Galardi: So the complete idea in a nutshell is
Doc agent-&gt;creates metadata-&gt;User creates template-&gt;Tool creates final Docstring and updates validator code
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:45:30.132439] U03NPDKU3S8: What is the problem we solve?
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:46:14.979149] Iker Galardi: We get automated documentation creation
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:46:35.686789] Iker Galardi: I mean there is a complete epic as a tech debt
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:47:45.087069] Iker Galardi: We can also use this in our CI later to add documentation for the code
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:47:50.455499] U03NPDKU3S8: Please link it in the MR, thanks
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:51:05.592199] Iker Galardi: Thanks, I will , but please let me know your feedback on the MR or in the proposal. I want to have the discussion if this is useful for our team and if it needs further refinement.
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:51:32.519689] U03NPDKU3S8: I can't review the MR if I do not understand the requirements.
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:52:03.596179] U03NPDKU3S8: If all the MR is about is: Automate generation of docstrings for these 3, based on a template, then I'd say: Why do they need a docstring?
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:53:44.123139] Iker Galardi: The idea is to
• To control the semantic and structure of the documentation
• Generate the docstring automatically 
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:55:08.435429] Iker Galardi: &gt; Automate generation of docstrings for these 3, based on a template,
For all the sources of the validator(this is configurable as well in case we wish to control)
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:55:23.924079] U03NPDKU3S8: &gt; To control the semantic
Automatically? As in, have tooling that would tell you: Your docstring says that your function does something, but the code actually does something else?
&gt;  and structure
Ok for me to require a specific structure.
&gt;  of the documentation

  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:58:18.331889] Iker Galardi: > As in, have tooling that would tell you: Your docstring says that your function does something, but the code actually does something else?
This gets synced by metadata. In the doc I have explained that the metadata gets extracted by the agent(LLM). Actually your statement is more true in case we manage it manually, where we might document something but forget to update it when we changed the module source
[2025-10-20T03:59:33.233739] U04SNH8Q39P: Hi, I have a problem to log to VPN. Anyone is having the same problems? I have tried `Red Hat global VPN` and `Red Hat global VPN (alternate TCP)` .
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:00:37.848469] Iker Galardi: Works fine for me
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:02:39.891769] U03NPDKU3S8: works for me as well. Do you get any error? Did you try specific servers? I use TLV2.
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:25:57.187709] U04NNFWH45S: Works fine for me
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:35:50.936109] U04SNH8Q39P: Thank you, still not working on my side. Good news is that my kerberos authentication works for workday.
  ↳ [2025-10-20T05:03:22.191889] U04SNH8Q39P: Finally, reboot of router resolved my problem.
  ↳ [2025-10-20T05:03:51.295559] U03NPDKU3S8: Congrats! :smile:
  ↳ [2025-10-21T06:16:17.030049] U04SNH8Q39P: Today my hardware token died, therefore my previous temporal problems with VPN where probably a symptoms of it.
  ↳ [2025-10-21T08:01:06.991859] U04SNH8Q39P: But not sure it might be a coincident
  ↳ [2025-10-21T08:18:45.762809] U03NPDKU3S8: Which one? Gemalto? Mine died several years ago...
  ↳ [2025-10-21T08:20:39.346349] U04SNH8Q39P: No idea, the tag is completely wiped out.
  ↳ [2025-10-21T08:20:56.606149] U03NPDKU3S8: :smile:
[2025-10-20T04:16:59.350069] Iker Galardi: Is <http://quay.io|quay.io> down? The CI <https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/automotive/contcert/foa-validators/product-build-analysis/-/jobs/41983144|job> receives 502 error
[2025-10-20T04:18:05.562489] Iker Galardi: <http://status.redhat.com|status.redhat.com> suggests it is operational :thinking_face:
  ↳ [2025-10-20T04:40:19.038749] Asaf Rachmani: Hi, <http://quay.io|quay.io> is down... :disappointed:
From: Gregory Shilin
Sender: Thread in Slack Conversation
<https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C7WH69HCY/p1760943817863079>
  ↳ [2025-10-20T05:20:21.971329] Asaf Rachmani: Welcome to Red Hat's home for real-time and historical data on system performance.
Title: Red Hat Status
<http://status.redhat.com/> is updated now :slightly_smiling_face:
  ↳ [2025-10-20T06:28:14.760369] Jochen Breuer: Looks like there are massive AWS problems. Quite a few things running there are either very slow or down.
[2025-10-21T08:25:31.359309] Iker Galardi: Hey team, I will miss our team meeting today as I have a doctor appointment at that time. I had some topics but will discuss in the next meet. If possible please record
[2025-10-21T09:43:13.834699] Lei Wang: <!channel> Hi Team, the RHAS is open for participation till this *FRIDAY*. Please try to take 10-20 mins to share your valuable experiences and insights if you haven't responded to it yet. Thank you! :smile:
Here's a source page capturing how our inputs helped shape and drive company wide actions FYI <https://source.redhat.com/groups/public/red_hat_employee_listening/2024_results_and_action_plans>
  ↳ [2025-10-21T09:49:48.041519] Tomas Golembiovsky: I think there was an email yesterday that the deadline is extended to Friday because of outages on Qualtrics side.
  ↳ [2025-10-21T09:50:37.425609] U04QNBZUT2R: Hello Red Hatters,

The platform for Red Hat Associate Survey (RHAS), Qualtrics, is currently experiencing an outage. Since this is a known issue, please refrain from submitting support tickets through ServiceNow.

As a result of the outage, the deadline to complete RHAS has been extended until the end of the day on Friday, Oct. 24.

Thank you for your patience,

Paul Schmidt

Details:

Outage started: Oct. 20, 2025

Impacted users:
All Red Hatters
  ↳ [2025-10-21T09:51:26.233939] Tomas Golembiovsky: Yes
  ↳ [2025-10-21T09:51:27.989559] Tomas Golembiovsky: <https://groups.google.com/a/redhat.com/g/announce-list/c/wgVPHnKdXgg>
  ↳ [2025-10-21T09:54:55.606299] Lei Wang: Great, we have a bit more time now for those who haven't got a chance to respond. Thanks for sharing <@U03PV3B9Q7K> <@U04QNBZUT2R>!
[2025-10-21T10:22:09.164059] Lei Wang: <!here> FYI we are working to resolve the last remaining issue with exida and if they are happy with our response, we will be on track for Thursday release with a certificate in hand and on the exida site no later than tomorrow
From: Amanda Carter
Sender: Slack Conversation
Latest update on our RHIVOS 1.0 GA release - <https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C083Q6UPZ17/p1761052223901939>
[2025-10-21T10:32:10.722779] Lei Wang: Bumping this thread in case anyone would like to sign but missed it
