Slack Channel Dump
Channel: #team-auto-assessment
Channel ID: C065HHG49QB
Generated: 2025-10-22 20:05:51
Total Messages: 301
================================================================================

Message 1 - 2025-09-23 08:41
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
As I understand it (thanks to the assessor-certificed wikipedia use) MISTRA C is a set of coding
guidelines for automotive users using C. Does anyone know if it requires to utilise C98? Or was it
simply based on C98 since it is old?

Message 2 - 2025-09-23 08:42
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
I'm reading between the lines of some of exida's comments and it might be linked to clients wanting
to use MISTRA C.

Message 3 - 2025-09-23 08:59
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Can you point to the comment?

Message 4 - 2025-09-23 09:01
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
AID-143 " Supported C language features for C11 are described at
https://gcc.gnu.org/projects/c-status.html#c11" - if the user follows MISRA C / or MISRA C subset,
is it also required to look at c-status.html - or is MISRA a superset of rules? Which MISRA version
can be used? "

Message 5 - 2025-09-23 09:01
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
as part of https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33180

Message 6 - 2025-09-23 09:02
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
I've already commented that C11 is an standard and MISTRA are coding guidelines, but maybe I'm not
understanding some client-related context

Message 7 - 2025-09-23 09:02
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
The assessors are somehow stepping beyond their responsibility here. We say we want to certify the
C11 (or better: GNU11) language. We do not refer to MISRA.

Message 8 - 2025-09-23 09:03
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
yep, I added "We make no claims about coding guidelines"

Message 9 - 2025-09-23 09:04
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
We should state: The restrictions of supported language functionality is described in &lt;URL&gt;.
The end users need to check the suitability or compatibility of that certified scope of language
functionality with any other internal or external coding guideline they may want to apply in their
development.

Message 10 - 2025-09-23 09:05
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I personally do not see the need for an AoU, though, because that is pretty clear.

Message 11 - 2025-09-23 10:10
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Hi All :slightly_smiling_face: The top level RA is reviewed
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/13LQl607X7VSyr38jNoJBqN17SZjx1qq9mp9qyOibg04/edit?tab=t.0)and
has 1 open finding about freezing workitems (RHIVOS-4091, RHIVOS-8957, RHIVOS-9008, RHIVOS-9854,
RHIVOS-22859 are not frozen). It would be great if someone can freeze these workitems and close this
finding .

Message 12 - 2025-09-23 10:25
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Thanks a lot @Tom Callaway :+1:

Message 13 - 2025-09-23 10:49
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Tom Callaway we have a miraculous travelling ticket that I wonder if you might be able to take lead
on -- @Amanda Sopkin and @U04QAEAG56V have both touched it so it's a little sticky (you know how
Dennis is). AIUI we have 2 remaining to dos roughly: Follow up with the glibc team to complete
questions confirming review of the architecture and addressing some questions
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32974?focusedId=28092197&amp;page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-28092197)
from exida about malloc. Would you be willing to have a look and see if you can take that over?
Gomathi nudged me to say that her team will be OOO from tomorrow evening through Monday, so it would
be ideal if we could grab time with them tomorrow :grimacing:

Message 14 - 2025-09-23 11:07
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
FYI !here unfortunately exida has made clear that they will not complete all P1 feedback to us until
Friday of this week which means that we will not be able to hit our Thursday goal, with that said,
we should work to close what's on our plate as quickly as we can so that we're ready for last minute
requests as we need to resubmit as close to Monday as possible. I'll keep you posted as we learn
more.

Message 15 - 2025-09-23 11:33
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Bob Johnson making sure you saw the request to reschedule on the dbus meeting?

Message 16 - 2025-09-23 11:33
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
(I think you often don't get emails for events on that calendar)

Message 17 - 2025-09-23 11:53
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I have saw it; and I asked Lukas to make it possible to join on Wednesday if possible. He agreed,
but we will try to keep it short.

Message 18 - 2025-09-23 11:54
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
ok just making sure!

Message 19 - 2025-09-24 08:54
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
My status: • new amazing colorful diagram for tmt in the works for highlighting input + output and
the requirements. Will be done EOB • data collection for seccomp and libseccomp in progress, hope to
finish with Pillar 3 by tomorrow

Message 20 - 2025-09-24 09:02
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@U04QAEAG56V what remains after Pillar 3?

Message 21 - 2025-09-24 09:24
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I cannot join midpoint due to the dbus maintainer meeting. AID-035 on ext. obj. controls is
basically done from my side. I am waiting for pillar 3 from Dennis. AID-035 on dbus-broker should be
done with the interview today. My technical reviews were all done, but then new AID from exida were
dropping in. I can redo any Technical Review quickly whenever needed. If anyone needs support with
something, just let me know or assign tasks to me. Besides the sprint log, I am supporting Sergei to
get the syzbot results presentable.

Message 22 - 2025-09-24 09:25
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
Thanks @Bob Johnson! for my understanding then, you don't need anything beyond pillar 3 for EOC?

Message 23 - 2025-09-24 09:26
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Well, I think we must have pillar 3; it would be nice to have the data on pillar 4, pillar 2 and
pillar 1, but I am fine with a more hand-waving argument for those.

Message 24 - 2025-09-24 09:29
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
I have a suggestion from Lucie to add list of people who can be contacted to approve a CR at
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VAXzsmORqO-eKMAR4FrRYv9ZPA06skET3yIpm-cBaWs/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.3tp09sl8na91
WDYT. For now I pointed her to the key personnel doc which lists tech expert and FuSa mgrs

Message 25 - 2025-09-24 12:13
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
@Pavol Brilla @John Smith thanks to the architectural diagram we (Lukas and I) found out that the
archiver (ar) is missing from the tool qualification. This is used to create a collection of
relocatable objects, so you don't need the static linker.

Message 26 - 2025-09-24 12:14
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
the end user doesn't need to use it, but the distro uses it

Message 27 - 2025-09-24 12:17
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
:tired_face:

Message 28 - 2025-09-24 12:18
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
Is the archiver used during the standard build when producing our rpms?

Message 29 - 2025-09-24 12:21
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
if the RPM has an *.a file, then the archiver has been used

Message 30 - 2025-09-24 12:22
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
And do we know if that .a file gets used?

Message 31 - 2025-09-24 12:25
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
as in runtime? no, *.a-s are used when building

Message 32 - 2025-09-24 12:45
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
I'm not sure if I understand that, but if we can show that an error in the .a cannot introduce a
failure in the deployed system, then the archiver might be TCL1.

Message 33 - 2025-09-24 13:46
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
&gt; found out that the archiver (ar) is missing from the tool qualification. This is used to create
a collection of relocatable objects, so you don't need the static linker. I really like how this
terminology is misleading. .a files are packed libraries that get statically linked, i.e. they
should not appear in the final rpm except they are meant for inclusion in end-user ELF objects.
The last change to the ar sources [1] has been made in 2013 by Nick fwiw. I have no idea if the
linker would fail for any type of fault ar can introduce
[1] arparse.y arlex.l ar.c not-ranlib.c arsup.c rename.c binemul.c bucomm.c version.c filemode.c
emul_vanilla.c

Message 34 - 2025-09-24 15:39
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I see that Scheduler was closed out - I wonder if anyone has bandwidth to steal Tech Review tasks
from Dennis?

Message 35 - 2025-09-24 15:39
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32045 and https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32034

Message 36 - 2025-09-24 15:40
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
I can take up VROOM-32045

Message 37 - 2025-09-25 05:27
From: Albert Esteve
----------------------------------------
hi! dumb question, what are the numbers in brackets that appear in the RA docs, in the `Potential
Safety Concern` row and `Suggested Mitigations` row of some questions?

Message 38 - 2025-09-25 05:27
From: Albert Esteve
----------------------------------------
I thought they were IDs in the summary table below, but they do not correlate

Message 39 - 2025-09-25 05:29
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
> I thought they were IDs in the summary table below it should be that...in theory. sometimes we
have already updated those tables to reference the actual Polarion work items but it has not been
applied consistently to all the RAs

Message 40 - 2025-09-25 05:31
From: Albert Esteve
----------------------------------------
I was looking at `systemd` RA as an example and in question 35 there is ```[4] RHIVOS-4540``` which
is ID 6 in the table below, so it threw me off a bit

Message 41 - 2025-09-25 05:34
From: Albert Esteve
----------------------------------------
but yeah, the others do correlate (at least for that question)

Message 42 - 2025-09-25 05:34
From: Albert Esteve
----------------------------------------
thanks for confirming

Message 43 - 2025-09-25 06:21
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
!here reminder for everyone: especially on gdocs and gsheet please update the versions of the doc in
the change history table because we are sharing many draft versions to exida. If they see different
contents of the doc with the same version it could just invite scrutiny

Message 44 - 2025-09-25 07:40
From: Albert Esteve
----------------------------------------
not sure what to do with this finding:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JoiL8EZiNiRfb2pR1qzTPu4jmCubvcSIgiU-ziURSb4/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.29uezw16i6n2
looks like a FoA ticket that was not filled? or at least not linked in the document?

Message 45 - 2025-09-25 07:53
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I will take care. Formalities.

Message 46 - 2025-09-25 08:10
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
done.

Message 47 - 2025-09-25 09:27
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
nice progress on AID-035 today!!! :heart:

Message 48 - 2025-09-25 09:52
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I am basically at the end of my sprint log. Please assign me things you see me contributing to.
Otherwise, I will be looking into helping Sergei on syzbot-results-analysis.

Message 49 - 2025-09-25 10:39
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Tom Callaway @Amanda Sopkin how are things looking with podman &amp; glibc AID-035 today? I know
you guys are getting close

Message 50 - 2025-09-25 12:14
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
@Bob Johnson as you may have bandwidth, can you please support the VROOM-32974
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32974)?

Message 51 - 2025-09-25 12:37
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Sure. I believe and hope that emotional support is all that is needed at this point, though. It
seems that we covered it well at this point, the horse is dead, but I surely beat it just a couple
more times to be sure.

Message 52 - 2025-09-26 09:49
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
We do have (at least) three FoA that are related: • MC: Execute all relevant RHIVOS QE tests on the
RHIVOS debug kernel to detect memory corruption-related failures. ◦
https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/RHIVOS/workitem?id=RHIVOS-8972&amp;revision=15401026
• MM: Confirm RHIVOS QE executes all available RHIVOS tests using the final kernel configuration
with a debug build where “KASAN” and “memory leaker” are enabled. All tests must pass, with no
“KASAN” or “memory leaker” errors reported, or if there are any identified issues these must be
analyzed and waived or tracked as defects. ◦
https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/RHIVOS/workitem?id=RHIVOS-8786 • tmt:
Implement and use a journald based checker plugin for tmt. ◦
https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/RHIVOS/workitem?id=RHIVOS-22146&amp;revision=15810060
For the MC FoA there is a FoA Tailoring Rationale: &gt; The activities requested by this FoA are
essentially done by RHIVOS-8786
(https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/RHIVOS/workitem?id=RHIVOS-8786) in the
Memory Management Risk Assessment. The list of tests to be run with KASAN and memory leaker checks
appears to be the same. This statement is not entirely true. For MC we also required lockdep, list
debugging etc.
How should I link them? So in our kernel-tests repo we have more than 80 tests which interfere with
the old dmesg checker, that's how the tmt FoA comes into play. The two for MM and MC are almost
identical, but not completely.

Message 53 - 2025-09-26 10:02
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
I'm technically not able to join our technical round table meeting, page is frozen and browser
restart doesn't help. I will reboot.

Message 54 - 2025-09-26 12:28
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Tom Callaway did someone volunteer for the informal review of glibc?

Message 55 - 2025-09-26 12:49
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
Anyone know how to get a full list of components from Jira?

Message 56 - 2025-09-26 13:58
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I want to highlight to the group that thanks to your work and @Fabrizio Tronci’s meticulous
management - we are down to only 10 open P1s to address (TMT revisions, seccomp/EOC updates, and
today's TCL discussion). This is a great way to end the week! We may have more to look into on
Monday but a big thank you to you all today :tada::tada::tada:

Message 57 - 2025-09-26 16:12
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
just a reminder that Polarion will be coming down soon. From: Brian Murray Sender: Slack
Conversation

Message 58 - 2025-09-27 01:34
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
The `ar` story. Friday afternoons I'm always a bit distracted, so sorry if I did not convey properly
what I meant. I guess @Jane Doe has some opinion here.
We are producing more than 500 archives during a regular RHEL kernel build and I strongly assume
it's used for more packages. Build systems like CMake automatically create some collection of packed
together objects for later static linking into the final ELF object. So we definitely have binaries
in RHIVOS which used ar during the build phase.
But if we go down this path, we can fall back to Ric's old estimate of finishing 2050. Why?
For the kernel we require for building (not a complete list, just some highlights): • make • gcc •
gcc-c++ • openssl • perl • python • gawk • xz • bash • m4 • elfutils • tar • binutils • bison • flex
• ... ar is just a small part of the binutils package. It's of a size that one skilled developer may
be able to write within two days. Please provide evidence that the signing of the kernel does not
mess with it. Or the final compression using xz or zlib. Or that our scanner generator and parser
generators, flex and bison, don't mess around considering the enormous input space for their scanner
and parser generator code + the inputs for the generated scanners and parsers. This more heavily
impacts the build of gcc itself.
If we go down this path, we'll also never qualify `a-i-b` a-i-b uses a lot of tools to produce the
final images. mkfs.ext4, rpm, dnf, bash...
We'll never finish qualifying `tmt`. This requires python, bash, ssh, rsync, beakerlib..
So we really need to find a way to make this like systemd. `ar` is disallowed to be used by the end
user (for now), but we use it internally in a way that's just fine. If we can't argue that in a
reasonable way for the collection of tools that are used like `ar`, then I don't know where this
leads us. If we can make a proven in use argument for all those helpers as a collection, then fine.
Let's enumerate them and make the argument. It does not work for them as we discussed, because
compare to `ar` most of the other tools and libraries change frequently over time.
The UNIX principle is our enemy here because at one point smart people decided to not create the one
and only master compiler binary which did everything, but to rather split into individual binaries
at a reasonable level.

Message 59 - 2025-09-27 01:34
From: Bot-B04JHQDP
----------------------------------------
Ian McLeod, you got your first kudos. Cheers to you! :partying_face:
Kudos given!!!

Message 60 - 2025-09-29 03:59
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
I've had a very tough weekend health-wise and I still haven't recovered, so you won't see much of me
today

Message 61 - 2025-09-30 04:00
From: Bot-B06KYLGU
----------------------------------------
Reminder : Please add your demos for tomorrow! :slightly_smiling_face:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HDTZ-dyRO9ksmelWVilXylYmrq8Txu5jw2h0UnoQTwE/edit. Thanks, team!

Message 62 - 2025-09-30 09:46
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@U04QAEAG56V @Tom Callaway @Bob Johnson any ETA on wrapping up the EOC &amp; glibc revisions for
AID-035?

Message 63 - 2025-09-30 09:46
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
and @U04QAEAG56V knowing that seccomp is likely taking up much of your time, is there any help you
need on the TMT cleanup?

Message 64 - 2025-09-30 09:48
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
I'm hoping to get the final okay on glibc revisions for AID-035 done this morning.

Message 65 - 2025-09-30 09:51
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
For glibc, I have just informally reviewed the changes. I think if we create two new JIRA tickets,
one for a short-term technical debt duplication and a second to clean it up later, we are good. I am
happy to define the tickets and implement the change if Joe agrees on doing so.

Message 66 - 2025-09-30 09:54
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
I'm okay with that approach.

Message 67 - 2025-09-30 09:54
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Okay, tickets are following.

Message 68 - 2025-09-30 09:55
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
I confirmed with Carlos that the dynlink, TLS, errno interaction takes place for all of the malloc
testing and use cases.

Message 69 - 2025-09-30 13:20
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Albert Esteve I also understand that you agreed to help out with some minor changes to the MM /
Scheduler RAs - making sure you're on track to wrap those up? If you need any assistance just speak
up :smile:

Message 70 - 2025-10-01 03:51
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Do we need to re-evaluate Jira because of the clout migration? Asking for a friend because of &gt;
We have been able to remediate the database corruption that was resulting in errors with our test
migrations. What can possibly go wrong. :upside_down_face:

Message 71 - 2025-10-01 04:29
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I think this serves as evidence that this tool is TCL1, aka "even if the tool is total crap, we got
capable people that detect when crappy things are going on and will take care of the crap output of
the tool".

Message 72 - 2025-10-01 09:18
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I think the point here is this was identified as part of testing to prepare for the migration - be
aware of your words please

Message 73 - 2025-10-01 09:21
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
!here I have a conflict for standup this morning (with a c language vendor) @John Smith would you
mind being the adult today? :smile: Please focus on anything that can go back to exida for review as
a priority and let me know if you need any assistance or have concerns that I can help with :heart:

Message 74 - 2025-10-01 09:32
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Bob Johnson Matthew is explaining to Piotr that we don't have 100% code coverage right now, could
you please get folks started?

Message 75 - 2025-10-01 10:38
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Hi :slightly_smiling_face: The Review of Test Sufficiency for Podman is done with 2 open findings -
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1szyEt4hbMKI6kD-JMfdFJIvXIXcU70WlhEkUcq0AEPk/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.qtg99bk1u8n2
It would be great if someone can take up the fixes.

Message 76 - 2025-10-01 10:45
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I will take care.

Message 77 - 2025-10-01 10:55
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Findings addressed. Please have a look and confirm closure or acceptance.

Message 78 - 2025-10-01 11:00
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Many thanks! LGTM

Message 79 - 2025-10-01 12:00
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Fabrizio Tronci unless you guys discussed in standup, could I ask you to communicate here when you
confirm that glibc tech reviews are unblocked b/c you've handed off revisions
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32974) to exida?

Message 80 - 2025-10-01 12:01
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Yes, we have let Priyanka know.

Message 81 - 2025-10-01 12:01
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
great! we probably could distribute these reviews also since there are at least 6 docs to be
reviewed

Message 82 - 2025-10-01 12:03
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Bob Johnson @U04QAEAG56V I understand we are going to drastically minimize the scope of what's
needed for seccomp - could I ask that you describe the new scope? My understanding is that work on
seccomp test sufficiency is no longer a blocker for our resubmission.

Message 83 - 2025-10-01 12:05
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
We have decided to provide the test sufficiency analysis evidence after GA and consider AID-035
addressed referring to that future activity. We have a justification in place that this does not
cause any risk.

Message 84 - 2025-10-01 12:05
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
so is there any further revision required for https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32973 ?

Message 85 - 2025-10-01 12:20
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I will probably need to write something up with Dennis tomorrow, referring to the podman end-to-end
seccomp tests.

Message 86 - 2025-10-01 12:21
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Then we pass it on to Fabrizio.

Message 87 - 2025-10-01 12:22
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
that's great news, thank you guys!

Message 88 - 2025-10-01 13:36
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
regarding this ticket VROOM-32974 (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32974) please @Tom
Callaway apply all the baselines in Polarion if the review is completed because. currently the
baseline is not updated with respect to the previous docs shared with exida

Message 89 - 2025-10-01 14:19
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Review of the malloc API group Risk Assessment is done with 1 minor finding
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z_hMROi39Oeq3GFV5ffhi42xQoMjEL-15o3a6ymntr4/edit?tab=t.0 would
anyone like to fix this one.

Message 90 - 2025-10-02 04:30
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Bob Johnson @Fabrizio Tronci could one of you confirm if this is a GA blocker?
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33367

Message 91 - 2025-10-02 04:50
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
morning, as both me and Dennis worked on this doc, can anyone take an informal review on this
VROOM-33179 (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33179)?

Message 92 - 2025-10-02 11:18
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
re about rewrite of https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-31740 , Pillar 2 H1, "The volume and
diversity of upstream use is high". in the glibc toolchain. The target metric is "The number of
RHEL/Fedora users is at least two orders of magnitude larger than the amount of workloads." Which is
difficult to frame in the glibc toolchain use case. We decided to define "user" as a package, which
invokes the compiler with certain flags. The invocation of a unique set of flags by a user/package
is “workload”. Since we saw no other possible mapping with the usage of the toolchain. I gathered
the data of the compiler flag usage for all the RHEL packages (see
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1o8f0tAgFNtmOTp9908eulFHtllFK4uxbQEKqBLhQRdY/edit?gid=227217608#gid=227217608
) and the goal was to argument that RHEL has more workloads than the workloads used to build ASIL B
packages. In retrospective, I don't know if this fits.

Message 93 - 2025-10-02 11:20
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
The data that we gathered lists the workloads (aka set of compilation options) used by each package,
for instance, the `389-ds-base` package uses these 11 different workloads: ```1) -O2 -fPIE
-fasynchronous-unwind-tables -fcf-protection=none -fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects -fltrans
-fno-openacc -fno-openmp -fplugin=annobin -fstack-clash-protection -fstack-protector-strong -g
-mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian 2) -O2 -fPIE -fasynchronous-unwind-tables -fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects
-flto -fplugin=annobin -fstack-clash-protection -fstack-protector-strong -g -mabi=lp64
-mlittle-endian 3) -O2 -O3 -fPIC -fcf-protection=none -fltrans -fno-openacc -fno-openmp
-fplugin=annobin -g -mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian 4) -O2 -O3 -fPIC -fasynchronous-unwind-tables
-fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects -flto -fplugin=annobin -fstack-clash-protection
-fstack-protector-strong -funroll-loops -fvisibility=hidden -g -g3 -mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian
-std=gnu11 5) -O2 -O3 -fPIC -fasynchronous-unwind-tables -fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects -flto
-fplugin=annobin -fstack-clash-protection -fstack-protector-strong -fvisibility=hidden -g -g3
-mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian -std=c++17 6) -O2 -fPIC -fcf-protection=none -fltrans -fno-openacc
-fno-openmp -fplugin=annobin -fstack-protector-strong -g -mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian 7) -O2 -fPIC
-fasynchronous-unwind-tables -fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects -flto -fplugin=annobin
-fstack-clash-protection -fstack-protector-strong -g -mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian 8) -O2 -fPIC
-fasynchronous-unwind-tables -fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects -flto -fplugin=annobin
-fstack-clash-protection -fstack-protector-strong -g -mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian 9) -O2 -O3 -fPIC
-fcf-protection=none -fltrans -fno-openacc -fno-openmp -fplugin=annobin -g -mabi=lp64
-mlittle-endian 10) -O2 -O3 -fPIC -fasynchronous-unwind-tables -fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects -flto
-fplugin=annobin -fstack-clash-protection -fstack-protector-strong -funroll-loops
-fvisibility=hidden -g -g3 -mabi=lp64 -mlittle-endian -std=gnu11 11) -O2 -O3 -fPIC
-fasynchronous-unwind-tables -fexceptions -ffat-lto-objects -flto -fplugin=annobin
-fstack-clash-protection -fstack-protector-strong -fvisibility=hidden -g -g3 -mabi=lp64
-mlittle-endian -std=c++17``` each workload is used N times.

Message 94 - 2025-10-02 11:23
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
Then we argue that RHEL has 996 unique workloads used by 1603 packages, which result in 207042
invocations of the compiler. We list the workloads for ASIL-B packages, and no surprise, they are
less since they are also less packages: 47 unique workloads, 8 ASIL-B packages, 3819 invocations of
the compiler

Message 95 - 2025-10-02 11:25
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
So, the amount of ASIL-B packages has changed (then: dbus-broker, glibc, libselinux, selinux,
podman, systemd), thereby the data will slightly change.

Message 96 - 2025-10-02 13:45
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@John Smith @Jane Doe @Fabrizio Tronci could I ask you to weigh in on the above when you have time?
Want to be sure we're clear on the plan here before Irene leaves :heart:

Message 97 - 2025-10-02 13:48
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
*HOLD THE PRESSES!!!* We have one very special AID that is now awaiting exida: everyone say goodbye
to AID-035!!!

Message 98 - 2025-10-02 15:16
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
Also, Piotr has messaged that he is done with his document reviews at this time and will now begin
reviews of our AID responses

Message 99 - 2025-10-03 10:26
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
Irene: "I see JIRA as the enemy"

Message 100 - 2025-10-03 11:49
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
in the external object control RA, /sys/fs/selinux is mentioned as a pseudofs entry but then it is
not mentioned as an entry point. Does anyone of you know why? I've seen that many of the
modifications on the RA have been applied by @Bob Johnson but I don't know if anyone else
participated to the interviews

Message 101 - 2025-10-03 15:43
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
Hi all. Per the discussion in today's round table, I have added the following question into the risk
assessment review template: "If this revision to the risk assessment includes fundamental changes to
the technical details, is there clear evidence of discussion and review with the maintainer(s)?
Include a link or reference to that evidence here."

Message 102 - 2025-10-03 15:44
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
Thus, cosmetic and clarification changes need not have maintainer involvement. Everything else does.

Message 103 - 2025-10-06 04:02
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
Hi all, I have a question related to the new AoU that I am supposed to add to the Kernel File Systm
and Storage RA (VROOM-31446 (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-31446)): &gt; RHIVOS end users
shall not configure image creation to use volume management. All filesystems shall be created on
block devices or partitions of block devices. Is my understanding correct, that in general LVM will
not be used in the final SW (including RHIVOS itself)? So only PVs respectively traditional
partitions are to be used in a system where RHIVOS operates, correct? (Just for my understanding,
it's clear that we do not need to inform the customer about it).

Message 104 - 2025-10-06 06:36
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Concerning the GA scope, the math library is currently not in GA scope, right, because we never
updated that document and the certificate is outdated by now if I remember it correctly.

Message 105 - 2025-10-06 06:36
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
correct, not in scope

Message 106 - 2025-10-06 07:53
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Who is allowed to set AoUs to approved or back to Open?

Message 107 - 2025-10-06 07:53
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Or when does that happen?

Message 108 - 2025-10-06 08:50
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
AoUs are approved when the doc is approved. And set back to open when modified by a CR

Message 109 - 2025-10-06 08:53
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Thanks. So, I need to think about if the query in the safety guidance document should really be on
"status: Approved" or if it has other criteria instead.

Message 110 - 2025-10-06 08:54
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
It seems that we have some content approved once in the past, but we do not want it to show in the
released safety guidance document.

Message 111 - 2025-10-06 10:08
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Sorry I have a call with my daughter's teacher (hopefully short one)

Message 112 - 2025-10-06 12:18
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
Does the wording "Only “C” locale are allowed to be used by the safety related applications"
constitute correct formulation for an AoU? I can update it to use "shall" if we want to do that but
didn't want to change an Approved AoU without making sure that we are all aware for updating the
related document(s).
https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/RHIVOS/workitem?id=RHIVOS-4233&amp;revision=15999371

Message 113 - 2025-10-06 18:54
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Tech sufficiency review for strings is complete with 1 minor finding -
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32028

Message 114 - 2025-10-06 18:54
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OUw38EdW1eW0k-6eTHEcT3J6NQiaRRQYdlH3G1Vzrg/edit?tab=t.0

Message 115 - 2025-10-06 18:54
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
It would be great if anyone can take a look

Message 116 - 2025-10-06 19:11
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
About RA review template
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T3ZsdAs7XQK4Jq_Zp8zBNfh14gs0T9smS8QFofUuzKo/edit?tab=t.0

Message 117 - 2025-10-06 19:12
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
We have a new 20th question . We need to use this newer version starting now? If yes, then many of
our already closed reviews will have 19 questions and the new ones will have 20

Message 118 - 2025-10-06 19:13
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
(its about maintainer review of the new changes - review evidence)

Message 119 - 2025-10-07 04:59
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Are we resubmitting a validator report for Re-submission 3.5? This ticket
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-30670 is currently marked as Submission 3.5 material, but I
fail to understand if it is part of a specific artefact planned or not.

Message 120 - 2025-10-07 04:59
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
no, at the moment is for GA only. not planned a re-submission of the validator report to exida

Message 121 - 2025-10-07 05:01
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Okay. So, I will remap it accordingly in my mind.

Message 122 - 2025-10-07 09:51
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
When a AoU/RoU work item is referenced in a document, do we require a corresponding safety concern
to be present in that document?
For EOC we have 3 work items which do not have a safety concern in EOC, but in systemd for example

Message 123 - 2025-10-07 09:57
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
Referenced how? Like in a maintainer answer?

Message 124 - 2025-10-07 09:59
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
In the table which describes the entry points

Message 125 - 2025-10-07 10:00
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I wondered about the same when doing that...

Message 126 - 2025-10-07 10:01
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
So there is an AoU that restricts access to the EOC entry point that came about from the systemd RA?
Is the systemd SC (linked to that AoU) relevant for EOC?

Message 127 - 2025-10-07 10:09
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
The reference on this AoU from systemd and from EOC is clearly visible in Polarion. It is also clear
that using the EOC risk assessment is not possible without systemd (and podman), the EOC risk
assessment is only valid in the context of the use with systemd and podman, but not in the context
of any other use.

Message 128 - 2025-10-07 10:16
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
You could come up with arbitrary safety concern, being almost as generic as "End users may assume
that the safety claims stated in safety guidance document, are implemented by individual independent
pieces of the RHIVOS distribution, and they may split and compose the individual pieces together as
they wish." but clearly that is not the case. The RHIVOS safety claims hold for RHIVOS as a whole.
Once something has been added to the scope of the RHIVOS certification, it is actually pretty
difficult to remove it again without risking that all other safety claims are also invalidated. Or
in other words, the confidence of the validity of the other safety claims decreases if the removal
(for whatever reason) of one safety claim is not done with care.

Message 129 - 2025-10-07 15:15
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
@Bob Johnson: I'm not sure if that's a yes or no answer. I'm essentially asking whether the systemd
SC applies at all to EOC. If it does not, that's fine.

Message 130 - 2025-10-07 15:57
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Review of the glibc Memory Management Risk Assessment
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/10AGxcb8Jd-hE4F5EfGpT-wCLD4aTdlSIP3TZrnDgSLE/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.nle2zzn3b3l0)
is complete with two open findings. It would be great if someone can do these quick fixes.
:slightly_smiling_face:

Message 131 - 2025-10-07 16:09
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Same goes for Review of Test Sufficiency Analysis - glibc string and memory routines
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OUw38EdW1eW0k-6eTHEcT3J6NQiaRRQYdlH3G1Vzrg/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.nle2zzn3b3l0)
only 1 minor finding probably only needs justification no fixes.

Message 132 - 2025-10-07 16:10
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32028

Message 133 - 2025-10-08 08:44
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
!here fyi due to a conflict with our daily chat with Piotr, I’m going to reduce our midpoint to 30
mins :two_hearts:

Message 134 - 2025-10-08 15:50
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
There is a Michael Medoff looking at the menu - he is not in the Red Hat ldap. Is he from exida? He
has access through mdmedoff@gmail.com (mailto:mdmedoff@gmail.com)

Message 135 - 2025-10-08 15:52
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
^ This is not exactly trustworthy. Google says he has something to do with exida.

Message 136 - 2025-10-08 15:52
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
(if that's really him and not somebody impersonating him)

Message 137 - 2025-10-08 15:54
From: John Smith
----------------------------------------
Yes, he's an exida assessor.

Message 138 - 2025-10-08 16:00
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
I finished the technical review for EOC, who can address the 2 findings?
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32042
The biggest finding is that one procfs entrypoint was missed during all of the previous reviews, but
that shouldn't be a big deal.

Message 139 - 2025-10-08 16:03
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
I have come out for a doctor’s visit. I should be back in an hourish

Message 140 - 2025-10-08 16:11
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@U04QAEAG56V it's your anniversary?!

Message 141 - 2025-10-08 16:11
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Almost

Message 142 - 2025-10-08 16:12
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
ok I won't spoil the celebration :smile:

Message 143 - 2025-10-08 16:12
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Last year my friendly manager (I won't tell who it is) did not write a friendly message about how
nice it is to have me here. So let's see what happens this year

Message 144 - 2025-10-08 16:13
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
managers... amirite?!

Message 145 - 2025-10-08 16:13
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Well.. I still got the one who is to blame

Message 146 - 2025-10-08 16:14
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
I'm not blaming anybody specific of course

Message 147 - 2025-10-08 16:14
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
:grin:

Message 148 - 2025-10-08 16:14
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
I'd never blame @Jochen Breuer

Message 149 - 2025-10-08 16:17
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
And just now Slack reloaded and I got some fancy 4 years tag. Wtf. The anniversary is a lie

Message 150 - 2025-10-08 16:18
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
time is a flat circle

Message 151 - 2025-10-08 16:20
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
At least Newton's motion laws are time reversal invariant

Message 152 - 2025-10-08 16:21
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
goes to his ananymous physicists meetup

Message 153 - 2025-10-08 16:22
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
also invites Jan and Luciana

Message 154 - 2025-10-09 03:36
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
&gt; At least Newton's motion laws are time reversal invariant Which was all the same to the apple
hitting him on the head! Thermodynamics... Hi, my name is Jan, I have suffered from physics long
time and it still heavily shapes my everyday life. I believe I am able to control it, though. Just
briefly adding that where there is symmetry, there is conservation... hem...

Message 155 - 2025-10-09 04:33
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I am still waiting for the physics to explain the creation of all these AIDs. After the creation of
the universe is explain, this might be next question to get a good answer for.

Message 156 - 2025-10-09 04:43
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Some theories say the sum of all energy in the universe is zero. So where there is light, there
needs to be shadow.

Message 157 - 2025-10-09 04:44
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
To me, this seems to be a question that needs to be addressed not by physical methods but by life
sciences since the whole system is too complex to make predictions based on first principles. We
rather need a heuristic approach for this...

Message 158 - 2025-10-09 04:45
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
Even might have to apply psychological models to explain that!

Message 159 - 2025-10-09 04:45
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I guess Piotr is the origin of all dark matter... that explains it :smile:

Message 160 - 2025-10-09 06:14
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Great tools that help us :grimacing:

Message 161 - 2025-10-09 07:20
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
on positive side you can always Learn more :slightly_smiling_face:

Message 162 - 2025-10-09 07:26
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
I have a question on File system and storage FoA 3.1: Support for NFS shall be removed from the
kernel (VROOM-25137 (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-25137)). The only linked Task in that
Epic is for removing NFS support by correspondingly configuring the kernel. Isn't this something
which should be checked by a validator in addition? Or is this implicitly covered by some already
existing validator?

Message 163 - 2025-10-09 07:59
From: Michel Normand
----------------------------------------
```Michael Medoff (mdmedoff@gmail.com (mailto:mdmedoff@gmail.com)) is requesting access to the
following document: Podman risk assessment (2024-01-29 19:06 GMT+1) - Transcript```

Message 164 - 2025-10-09 07:59
From: Michel Normand
----------------------------------------
what is this?

Message 165 - 2025-10-09 07:59
From: Michel Normand
----------------------------------------
Should i grant it?

Message 166 - 2025-10-09 08:00
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
There is a Michael Medoff looking at the menu - he is not in the Red Hat ldap. Is he from exida? He
has access through mdmedoff@gmail.com (mailto:mdmedoff@gmail.com) From: Dennis Brendel Sender: Slack
Conversation https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C065HHG49QB/p1759949435306329

Message 167 - 2025-10-09 08:00
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
He's another exida member. I think we haven't opened the transcripts to exida so far so let's
continue with the same approach atm

Message 168 - 2025-10-09 08:01
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
they have the Q&amp;A in the risk assessments as evidence

Message 169 - 2025-10-09 08:19
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I’m sure we’ll get an AID for it, don’t worry

Message 170 - 2025-10-09 10:13
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
Hi all, I'm checking in on our AID status this morning - I think 247 &amp; 5 are the only remaining
items (thanks to Joe &amp; Lukas for wrapping up 120) • I see activity from Pablo on 5 this morning
- any concerns from your side @Fabrizio Tronci? • @Bob Johnson have you gotten an ETA from Luigi on
247?

Message 171 - 2025-10-09 10:13
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Yes, ETA is done five minutes ago.

Message 172 - 2025-10-09 10:13
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
wait - the ticket is done?

Message 173 - 2025-10-09 10:14
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
He is waiting for an informal review from my side, then we will push it to Fabrizio.

Message 174 - 2025-10-09 10:14
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
amazing!

Message 175 - 2025-10-09 10:15
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
> • I see activity from Pablo on 5 this morning - any concerns from your side @Fabrizio Tronci? 4k
read/write entries not fuzzed have been identified in VROOM-33478
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33478). I suggested to Pablo to raise it during the today's
meeting if he may need support because the update may take several days in his opinion

Message 176 - 2025-10-09 10:16
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I'll check in with him

Message 177 - 2025-10-09 10:16
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
thanks

Message 178 - 2025-10-09 10:20
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
btw @Pavol Brilla there is also a handful of tickets which require updates to the safety guidance. I
think you mentioned only the long poles there, right?

Message 179 - 2025-10-09 10:20
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
yup, and those are within our control - not awaiting action from another team :smile:

Message 180 - 2025-10-09 10:23
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
but if you have any concerns about those let me know also

Message 181 - 2025-10-09 10:24
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@U04QAEAG56V did anyone volunteer to pick up the EOC findings?
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32042

Message 182 - 2025-10-09 10:24
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Hmm, that was a tab I had already opened...

Message 183 - 2025-10-09 10:25
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Not yet. I wanted to start another round of nagging when I soon finished the corresponding test
sufficiency review, but anybody can still take it

Message 184 - 2025-10-09 10:27
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Bob Johnson are you saying you're looking at EOC?

Message 185 - 2025-10-09 10:29
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Yes, I am half through.

Message 186 - 2025-10-09 10:30
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
awesome, I'll add you to the ticket :smile:

Message 187 - 2025-10-09 10:35
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Work done. Dennis to confirm closure.

Message 188 - 2025-10-09 10:38
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
I assume we need a formal FoA in Polarion to create this validator and refer to it in the RA, right?
+ a Jira task to get it done + another AoU stating that end users should not load the NFS kernel
module with modprobe. Is that right?

Message 189 - 2025-10-09 10:45
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
REMINDER: If you are working on an AID ticket, please assign it to Fabrizio when you are done so
that he can update the menu - he will close it once that's complete! (I moved the build env ticket
back)

Message 190 - 2025-10-09 10:46
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Ture.

Message 191 - 2025-10-09 10:47
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I was in such a flow of closing :smile:

Message 192 - 2025-10-09 10:48
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I generally support it :smile:

Message 193 - 2025-10-09 10:49
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
but the real pleasure in closing an item is closing an AID

Message 194 - 2025-10-09 10:50
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Sure, if a project manager would only need to monitor one list of items to be closed... dream on...

Message 195 - 2025-10-09 10:50
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
or if the list only stayed put...

Message 196 - 2025-10-09 11:01
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
The glibc compiler toolchain RA has been updated and needs another round of technical review.

Message 197 - 2025-10-09 11:13
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
I created 5 minor findings for the EOC test sufficiency document that can be addressed.
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32030

Message 198 - 2025-10-09 11:16
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Wait, it is getting more?

Message 199 - 2025-10-09 11:17
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I am on it.

Message 200 - 2025-10-10 08:15
From: U04NDGABHHA
----------------------------------------
Hi all.
I am looking at the safety guidance doc in the main branch and I see that math is QM now even if it
was the first certficate we got

Message 201 - 2025-10-10 08:15
From: U04NDGABHHA
----------------------------------------
can anybody explain ?

Message 202 - 2025-10-10 08:19
From: Fabrizio Tronci
----------------------------------------
the current safety guidance is based on the scope of the RHIVOS 1.0 GA which doesn't include math.
we are not including the evidence of math in this submission (e.g. tests, validators..) so in this
version of the doc it is not considered in the safety scope

Message 203 - 2025-10-10 08:20
From: U04NDGABHHA
----------------------------------------
So if a customer ask we should say that math cannot be used by ASIL B apps ?

Message 204 - 2025-10-10 08:21
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Please avoid hypothetical questions. Thanks.

Message 205 - 2025-10-10 08:22
From: U04NDGABHHA
----------------------------------------
Ok removing the hypothesis

Message 206 - 2025-10-10 08:22
From: U04NDGABHHA
----------------------------------------
Can math APIs be invoked by ASIL B apps or not ?

Message 207 - 2025-10-10 08:23
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Yes. They can. And if they do, we will include them into the certification scope upon request.

Message 208 - 2025-10-10 08:23
From: U04NDGABHHA
----------------------------------------
Ok thanks, so today math is not in the safety scope

Message 209 - 2025-10-10 08:27
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
You are right. Just note that we have a certification for math. So, we did it once, and we can do it
again, we just do it upon request.

Message 210 - 2025-10-13 07:15
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33417
Can someone justify why the safety guidance is in draft state for the GCC quality review? This is
the only finding

Message 211 - 2025-10-13 08:43
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I will take care.

Message 212 - 2025-10-13 08:46
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
I provided a suitable rationale.

Message 213 - 2025-10-13 08:53
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Thank you!

Message 214 - 2025-10-13 09:31
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@U04NDGABHHA repeat request - please do not file tickets and list me as the Reporter if you are the
Reporter :smile:

Message 215 - 2025-10-13 09:31
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I am going to flip the ones I see in my inbox

Message 216 - 2025-10-13 09:32
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
Cloning is evil :smile:

Message 217 - 2025-10-13 10:43
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
May I please have a DocID for "Review of RHIVOS Release For Production for RHIVOS 1.0 GA"?

Message 218 - 2025-10-13 11:03
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
I've completed the technical review of the Release For Production document for VROOM-30607
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-30607) with 1 minor finding. Who should I assign the ticket
to for addressing the finding?

Message 219 - 2025-10-13 13:18
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Review of glibc compiler toolchain Risk Assessment
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v0o6SKuPnwV9NoKk-lF32m1vNrJbZwxGQum8T_BDsPo/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.nle2zzn3b3l0)
is complete with 4 findings. Does anyone have cycles to address the findings?

Message 220 - 2025-10-13 13:27
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@U04Q5LSQ0R5 are these mechanical / cosmetic or do they need an SME?

Message 221 - 2025-10-13 13:27
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
They dont need SME

Message 222 - 2025-10-13 13:28
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Mostly about absent linking , freezing workitems and Arch diagram color key (cosmetic + traceability
stuff)

Message 223 - 2025-10-13 13:29
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
I'll work on it

Message 224 - 2025-10-13 13:35
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
awesome, thank you both!

Message 225 - 2025-10-14 04:00
From: Bot-B06KYLGU
----------------------------------------
Reminder : Please add your demos for tomorrow! :slightly_smiling_face:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HDTZ-dyRO9ksmelWVilXylYmrq8Txu5jw2h0UnoQTwE/edit. Thanks, team!

Message 226 - 2025-10-14 04:18
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
Hi all, I have questions related to the "Risk" work items in Polarion: • Is my assumption correct
that we want to use those to traceably document the interdependency of the Risk Assessments? • What
else can be represented by a "Risk" work item (e.g. I saw also a "Risk" for GCC compiler
qualification)? • Is there a Document specifying the process we apply for creation and linking of
the "Risks"? • Shouldn't we have an unambiguous relationship between the "Risk" work item and the RA
it's representing? For some of them I found a hyperlink, but for most of them it's missing.

Message 227 - 2025-10-14 06:22
From: U09F4VDKSCD
----------------------------------------
Hi team, as mentioned yesterday in the standup, I have observed three issues that I need to solve
before completing the import of currently known Technical FoAs for File System and Storage RA. I
have commented these in VROOM-25700 (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-25700).
• ~While I believe that I have to check the third bullet point (*FoAs 32.1 and 32.2*) directly with
the team that has worked on FoAs 22.1 and 22.2:~ When somebody has a couple of minutes, could you
please • at least recommend how to proceed for *FoAs 17.1 and 17.2* (actually covered by FoAs from a
different RA) and • maybe comment on the issue described for *FoA 26.1*? However, it might also make
sense to have a short call to discuss that one... Thanks for your help!

Message 228 - 2025-10-14 10:18
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
@U09F4VDKSCD triggered a discussion on the `ar` tool usage and how this is presented in the compiler
toolchain RA interaction diagram. We present one specific use case in that diagram that is of no
relevance since we do not allow static linking (of components external to the safety application).
Our RHEL derived use case for building binaries/dsos is not represented in the diagram.
So in order to avoid confusion we should remove the `ar` part for now and later work on the planned
improvements (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33274). Any concerns?

Message 229 - 2025-10-14 10:21
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
IMHO we should keep as is and include details in upcoming cycle/Post GA. We can add a note if
needed.

Message 230 - 2025-10-14 13:56
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
The glibc toolchain Test Sufficiency Technical Review is complete with 3 findings. VROOM-32051
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32051) Two findings are minor one will need the attention of
a safety expert to determine if the missing hypotheses are needed for a tool qualification.

Message 231 - 2025-10-15 02:41
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
I'm not able to work today, hope to be back tomorrow

Message 232 - 2025-10-15 03:31
From: Bob Johnson
----------------------------------------
@U04QAEAG56V Don't worry, we will not go GA without you.

Message 233 - 2025-10-15 04:51
From: Michal Skrivanek
----------------------------------------
`s/without you//` ?

Message 234 - 2025-10-15 10:25
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
The systemd RA Technical Review is complete with 1 minor finding (unfrozen WI). VROOM-32040
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-32040) Who can address this?

Message 235 - 2025-10-15 11:43
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Tom Callaway Priyanka has a small pile of tech reviews, so I'm going to ask you to handle the CIA
review when @Bob Johnson is ready please? https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-33668

Message 236 - 2025-10-15 11:43
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
I think he's suggested you can start but you might want to understand what's still to do

Message 237 - 2025-10-15 11:44
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
Okay, thanks

Message 238 - 2025-10-15 11:44
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
thank you sir

Message 239 - 2025-10-15 12:08
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
May I please have the DocID for "Review of RHIVOS Change Impact Analysis - Change of glibc toolchain
versions"? I don't see it in the menu.

Message 240 - 2025-10-15 13:57
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
:green_alert: Warning Warning Warning: AIDs are dangerously low! Reporting 0! Check systems
immediately! :green_alert:

Message 241 - 2025-10-16 03:26
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Do we have a template of the change impact analysis docs?

  Thread Reply 242 - 2025-10-16 03:48
  From: Bob Johnson
  --------------------------------------
We do not have an explicit template, but you can look at all of them and infer a common structure.

  Thread Reply 243 - 2025-10-16 03:48
  From: Bob Johnson
  --------------------------------------
For tools, you can probably just copy the whole initial part from the glibc toolchain change impact
analysis.

  Thread Reply 244 - 2025-10-16 03:55
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
Will do, thanks!

  Thread Reply 245 - 2025-10-16 04:07
  From: Bob Johnson
  --------------------------------------
Just to set expectations right, I am totally not happy with the presentation of the actual relevant
information, but I followed a high-level idea of "revisit all questions and all FoAs for the
specific versions of interest" and that then caused the document to be as it is. The issue is though
that the safety concerns are often "sub-concerns" of a higher-level concern, and even more so, the
mitigation is essentially the same (run the test), with a specific minor property to check.
Transferring that to the change impact analysis and with no automatic validators in place, it is
basically asking that a specific property in the test run is true. I do not know yet how such
situation is best resolved, though, with the various pros and cons. In the future, do we ask for
multiple automatic validators on the same data or one validator to check all properties on the data
set? Should we restructure the safety concerns table to make clear, that a higher-level safety
concern, can be essentially broken down to these further safety concerns, and that the mitigation is
one with the multiple aspects to take into account? Etc. etc. Anyway, for now, I understand the
actual structure and I hope nobody else ever needs to wrap their head around this in the close
future (so let us say next five years or so) and until then, we better understand what all this
change impact analysis is actually all about.

  Thread Reply 246 - 2025-10-16 04:14
  From: Bob Johnson
  --------------------------------------
But I believe in the continuous certification framework! I.e., if doing this work continuously is
just painful enough for long enough, we will eventually learn to do it differently.

  Thread Reply 247 - 2025-10-16 05:10
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
Thank you for your thoughts. As I am working through the document I can see what you are saying. For
this round I will follow the structure and adapt it to fmf/tmt. I hope eventually we get to
streamline this and automate most of it in a way that adds to safety.
I'm not sure at all right now, what we actually need to do for tmt. It's different from the compiler
toolchain in the regard that we re-run the testing also post-pasckage promotion, i.e. each package
gets tested by a number of versions of tmt including the latest and greatest tmt-1.59.0 that has
been pushed into the pipeline just today. Do we just want to present that the version that was used
to create some evidence did correctly report the test results? Why would we ignore the fact we have
much more evidence in-house that we don't necessarily share with the assessor proactively? Let's see
what makes sense in the end

Message 248 - 2025-10-16 05:13
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
Can I please have a doc ID for "RHIVOS Change Impact Analysis - Change of test framework versions"

  Thread Reply 249 - 2025-10-16 05:14
  From: Fabrizio Tronci
  --------------------------------------
2689

Message 250 - 2025-10-16 09:41
From: U9AR7FQTA
----------------------------------------
@Fabrizio Tronci @John Smith and team! It looks like we're on the final stretch of this
ultra-marathon. You're doing great! Please let Steve / me know if you need anything today.

Message 251 - 2025-10-16 10:37
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
[No text content]

  Thread Reply 252 - 2025-10-16 11:57
  From: Alex McLeod
  --------------------------------------
[No text content]

Message 253 - 2025-10-16 13:52
From: U04Q5LSQ0R5
----------------------------------------
Review of Top Level RA is done with 2 open findings
https://docs.google.com/document/d/13LQl607X7VSyr38jNoJBqN17SZjx1qq9mp9qyOibg04/edit?tab=t.0 it
would be great it anyone can help with these quick fixes. 1 related to freezing and another is about
no prod. need linked to the newly added SC.

Message 254 - 2025-10-16 14:13
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
I can take it

  Thread Reply 255 - 2025-10-16 14:21
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
Done.  I baselined the document and updated the review document and ticket.

Message 256 - 2025-10-17 09:33
From: U9AR7FQTA
----------------------------------------
Hi all - we're canceling the technical round table today due to the team in crunch mode on the last
few open items for our cert (mostly document reviews).

Message 257 - 2025-10-17 09:34
From: U9AR7FQTA
----------------------------------------
Let's get this done. Good job, team!

Message 258 - 2025-10-17 09:58
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
May I please get a DocID for "Review of RHIVOS Change Impact Analysis - Change of test framework
versions"?

  Thread Reply 259 - 2025-10-17 10:04
  From: Fabrizio Tronci
  --------------------------------------
2690

Message 260 - 2025-10-17 10:28
From: U04QAEAG56V
----------------------------------------
I addressed comments from @Bob Johnson and @Tom Callaway in the test framework CIA doc. Did any of
you do the informal review?

  Thread Reply 261 - 2025-10-17 10:31
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
I had started the Technical Review but saw that Lukas was commenting so assumed he was doing the
informal review.

  Thread Reply 262 - 2025-10-17 10:31
  From: Bob Johnson
  --------------------------------------
I was just checking to see if there is a major inconsistency in the approach of the two documents.

  Thread Reply 263 - 2025-10-17 10:32
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
I guess Fabrizio would not object if someone takes over that review

  Thread Reply 264 - 2025-10-17 10:39
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
I can do it since I'll be reviewing it formally as well.

  Thread Reply 265 - 2025-10-17 10:46
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
I'm done with the informal review.  I left a couple of small comments for typos.

  Thread Reply 266 - 2025-10-17 10:48
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
Thanks, I addressed them

  Thread Reply 267 - 2025-10-17 10:55
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
I've done the technical review and there is one finding. I've assigned the ticket to you
@U04QAEAG56V to address it.

  Thread Reply 268 - 2025-10-17 11:01
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
I wrote a sentence.. does it make sense, also from a language perspective?

  Thread Reply 269 - 2025-10-17 11:02
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
Yes

  Thread Reply 270 - 2025-10-17 11:03
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
And now it's a bit silly that we don't have individual versions

  Thread Reply 271 - 2025-10-17 11:04
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
Yeah, I was wondering how you were going to deal with this situation.

  Thread Reply 272 - 2025-10-17 11:05
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
I followed the other examples, but maybe that wasn't a good idea after all. It's less paper work in
the beginning, but more long-term

  Thread Reply 273 - 2025-10-17 11:09
  From: Bob Johnson
  --------------------------------------
Do not worry long term. If we cannot automate gathering the necessary evidence for the change impact
analysis for tools, we already doomed short term, for anything beyond GA. (Unless we decide to
freeze all tools used, which QA would probably point out as being really stupid... so automation of
gathering the evidence is the only way forward and then this CIA report is to be fully automatically
generated.)

  Thread Reply 274 - 2025-10-17 11:15
  From: U04QAEAG56V
  --------------------------------------
Ok, let's see. I bumped the version in the main doc meanwhile

Message 275 - 2025-10-17 11:03
From: Tom Callaway
----------------------------------------
CIA TRs go to Matthew for approval like everything else, right?

  Thread Reply 276 - 2025-10-17 11:04
  From: Bob Johnson
  --------------------------------------
Yes, they are due to GA. So it might be that they will deeper in that stack of work.

  Thread Reply 277 - 2025-10-17 11:05
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
Ack, thanks

  Thread Reply 278 - 2025-10-17 11:35
  From: Fabrizio Tronci
  --------------------------------------
could you suspend flipping the approval cards to Matthew until the closure of the re-submission?
that document goes in the GA delivery but not to exida

  Thread Reply 279 - 2025-10-17 11:35
  From: Fabrizio Tronci
  --------------------------------------
so just to avoid confusion

  Thread Reply 280 - 2025-10-17 11:35
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
Yes, so only 3.5 cards go to Matthew right now?

  Thread Reply 281 - 2025-10-17 11:37
  From: Fabrizio Tronci
  --------------------------------------
yes please, only 3.5 and release for production VROOM-30607
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-30607).

  Thread Reply 282 - 2025-10-17 11:37
  From: Fabrizio Tronci
  --------------------------------------
the others can be approved after the resubmission 3.5

  Thread Reply 283 - 2025-10-17 11:37
  From: Tom Callaway
  --------------------------------------
I've assigned the CIA TR tickets back to myself for now

Message 284 - 2025-10-17 16:47
From: U9AR7FQTA
----------------------------------------
Great job team on closing out all the remaining reviews. The docs are in long term storage.
Now we just have to wait for exida to close the remaining P1s (fingers crossed none bounce back) and
give us the cert + report.

Message 285 - 2025-10-17 16:48
From: U9AR7FQTA
----------------------------------------
Safe travels to all who're traveling!

Message 286 - 2025-10-21 04:08
From: Amanda Sopkin
----------------------------------------
Hi folks, I'm back, I guess that most of you will be out for the F2F, I'll be excavating my inbox,
ping me directly if I need to be aware of anything

Message 287 - 2025-10-21 07:57
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
welcome back @Amanda Sopkin! I hope your assignments this sprint make sense - if you have any
questions though please let me know :heart:

Message 288 - 2025-10-21 10:10
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
!here FYI we are working to resolve the last remaining issue with exida and if they are happy with
our response, we will be on track for Thursday release with a certificate in hand and on the exida
site no later than tomorrow From: Amanda Carter Sender: Slack Conversation

Message 289 - 2025-10-22 14:14
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
@Alex McLeod @U03KTGK0ACB woooah look at that announcement!

Message 290 - 2025-10-22 14:16
From: U03KTGK0ACB
----------------------------------------
All 6 of us group members :party-blob:

Message 291 - 2025-10-22 14:16
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
it's pretty cool :smile: who did you add to the group?

Message 292 - 2025-10-22 14:17
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
oh I found the list - nm

Message 293 - 2025-10-22 14:17
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
would it be ok for me to add Matthew &amp; Fabrizio to see the publication events?

  Thread Reply 294 - 2025-10-22 14:21
  From: U03KTGK0ACB
  --------------------------------------
spaces.redhat.com/spaces/Automotive/pages/626721877/Working+with+Customer+Portal+Private+Groups
(http://spaces.redhat.com/spaces/Automotive/pages/626721877/Working+with+Customer+Portal+Private+Groups)

  Thread Reply 295 - 2025-10-22 14:22
  From: Pavol Brilla
  --------------------------------------
:meow_love:

  Thread Reply 296 - 2025-10-22 14:31
  From: U03KTGK0ACB
  --------------------------------------
Thanks for the forward -- I didn't get the email myself. (I _wish_ there were just a *few* more
formatting options...)

  Thread Reply 297 - 2025-10-22 14:31
  From: Pavol Brilla
  --------------------------------------
lol

Message 298 - 2025-10-22 14:18
From: Alex McLeod
----------------------------------------
Do please

Message 299 - 2025-10-22 14:18
From: U03KTGK0ACB
----------------------------------------
Sure -- this was from POC testing several months ago.

Message 300 - 2025-10-22 14:18
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
sweet - very nice work!

Message 301 - 2025-10-22 14:18
From: Pavol Brilla
----------------------------------------
awesome to see this finally

