Slack Channel Dump
Channel: #toolchain-sla
Channel ID: C095CUUBNM9
Generated: 2025-10-03 19:32:13
Total Messages: 115
================================================================================

Message 1 - 2025-07-12 21:18
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
Hi everyone, I wanted to start a thread on the SLA topic so we're all aligned and working from the
same page.

Message 2 - 2025-07-12 21:22
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
basically, we want to start looking at how to support the pipeline and its services and who will be
responsible for what

Message 3 - 2025-07-12 21:23
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
besides looking at how we are going to organize ourselves to support it, we need to have a clear
understanding of what's expected

Message 4 - 2025-07-12 21:23
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
and that's where the SLA comes in the picture

Message 5 - 2025-07-12 21:26
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
we need someone (I am looking at you Jim) to spearhead this effort, first by mapping what we have,
and then identifying SMEs, understanding what expected, writing and SLA, and then formalizing how to
go about executing the support plan (or SLA)

Message 6 - 2025-07-12 21:29
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
in the meantime, we asked Petr Sabata to open an initiative with an estimated timeline and then get
stakeholders(PO’s) expectations and then socialize it in the program and PO calls

Message 7 - 2025-07-13 09:31
From: Robert O'Brien
----------------------------------------
@Robert O'Brien has joined the channel

Message 8 - 2025-07-13 09:36
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Thanks for starting this @Paul Caramuto! *(ALL , Please answer on your working day/hours and
appologies in advance)* I also added Robert and Petr to this thread as someone on the ATC team with
experience and passion for the subject to help us out.
Sharing also the first initiative on this subject added by Petr:
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886 (Improving infrastructure availability) , we need this
more well defined as well as currently it's empty(disregard AI nice summery) .
Maybe it's worth to add another workgroup channel for it with Petr S. in there to get immediate
feedback for this one and direction.

Message 9 - 2025-07-13 09:36
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
@Petr Sabata has joined the channel

Message 10 - 2025-07-13 12:32
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
thanks Avi. Since the ticket's description is inaccurate, let's start with getting that straightened
out. I gave Gemini some inputs and created this description
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/11gIvSxQl_E3YibRIscHpARsbhilF9QT2Eiy--cTKlIQ/edit?tab=t.0),
please feel free to comment.

Message 11 - 2025-07-13 13:11
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Please disregard the AI auto created summery as it's false. Lets give @Petr Sabata (on his working
days :slightly_smiling_face: ) some time to add the needed context the full description as the main
stakeholder

Message 12 - 2025-07-13 13:12
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Let continue discussion tommorow Paul - It's your non-working day , please rest up and answer
tommorow please :pray:

Message 13 - 2025-07-13 14:16
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
yeah, the description in the Jira ticket is inaccurate, we could work off the newly AI generated
description
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/11gIvSxQl_E3YibRIscHpARsbhilF9QT2Eiy--cTKlIQ/edit?tab=t.0)
(based on my inputs).

Message 14 - 2025-07-14 10:56
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
Less "inaccurate" and more like "totally empty"; I create it first and then was hoping to get a
dedicated moment to think about the personas we discussed. That hasn't happened yet, but I'll get
you something soonish so that you can start with the data gathering.

Message 15 - 2025-07-14 11:02
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Thanks you @Paul Caramuto for starting the mentioned description
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/11gIvSxQl_E3YibRIscHpARsbhilF9QT2Eiy--cTKlIQ/edit?tab=t.0) doc,
it's a solid start but I would not get attached to it as we did not get the actual requirments from
the stakeholders yet. Let's have @Petr Sabata get something more customized as a requirement as a
stakeholder(PO) and refine the initiative (and description
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/11gIvSxQl_E3YibRIscHpARsbhilF9QT2Eiy--cTKlIQ/edit?tab=t.0) doc
accordingly).

Message 16 - 2025-07-14 15:58
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
sounds good, yes I agree stakeholders will have a much more accurate requirement

Message 17 - 2025-07-16 21:04
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
I've taken Paul's AI summary and purpose, reworded it a little and put it in the initative. I
dropped the rest, as it was too wordy for my taste and potentially implying things out of scope. I
then added two more sections, one specifying the two phases, the other for the personas.

Message 18 - 2025-07-16 21:05
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
No personas yet, will add some soon. I also mentioned this to Rachel and Stephen today, they might
provide some more.

Message 19 - 2025-07-16 22:52
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
thanks Petr, nice and clean; I like the clear description of the two Work Items

Message 20 - 2025-07-17 07:21
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Looks good @Petr Sabata ! Thanks for the refinements. My only change suggestion might be about
better definition/wording for ‘auto toolchain pipeline’ as it’s pretty vague what it actually
contains or impacts and change it to the released build pipeline instead to focus this proposal
further. Would also like to get @Robert O'Brien and @Jim Bair thoughts on it
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/11gIvSxQl_E3YibRIscHpARsbhilF9QT2Eiy--cTKlIQ/edit?tab=t.0) when
they have some time to review.( no rush )

Message 21 - 2025-07-17 09:56
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
I don't think I have 'auto toolchain pipeline' anywhere in the text; I was actually replacing that
with a different string in the ticket. Because yes, that didn't make much sense to me.

Message 22 - 2025-07-17 09:58
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
I was looking here:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/11gIvSxQl_E3YibRIscHpARsbhilF9QT2Eiy--cTKlIQ/edit?usp=drivesdk
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/11gIvSxQl_E3YibRIscHpARsbhilF9QT2Eiy--cTKlIQ/edit?usp=drivesdk)

Message 23 - 2025-07-17 10:03
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
Yeah, that's Paul's doc. I didn't touch it.

Message 24 - 2025-07-17 10:13
From: Robert O'Brien
----------------------------------------
Would epics for each of the ATC focus areas help to scope initial assessment? I think each of us
have a list of things that irritate us or slow us down. There may be tasks already created, but not
linked to any initiative for prioritisation or coordination. ```Gating Infra Distribution Exida
Dashboard Product Pipelines Test Console Testing Farm Integration ATC Sec Compliance``` The gdoc is
not open for edit to me, persmission has been requested.

Message 25 - 2025-07-17 10:14
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
I'd say you can ignore the doc :slightly_smiling_face:

Message 26 - 2025-07-17 10:14
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
Paul just put it together before I populated the ticket, as something to potentially put in the
summary. We now have the actual ticket (sans personas).

Message 27 - 2025-07-17 10:15
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
As for the area-specific epics, that might be one approach.

Message 28 - 2025-07-17 10:23
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Got it, so the Jira covers the changes .. I’ll have a look

Message 29 - 2025-07-17 13:39
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Ok, finnaly got to look at the Jira https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886 wording and overall
looks good @Petr Sabata. Something to consider is to change from the very generic "RHIVOS toolchain
pipeline" wording into clear one which will reflect the impact/outcome of this initiative. I suggest
instead of "RHIVOS toolchain pipeline" to the a more specific wording as: "Release build pipeline/s"
.(which is the original intent here and impact/outcome is clear: to unblock building multiple
releases by increasing stability and performance)

Message 30 - 2025-07-17 13:50
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
I didn't want to be overly specific because things impacting our ability to deliver might not be
specific to building, and they might not be specific to what the ATC team is actively working on.
Regardless, we need to identify those to figure out our next steps.

Message 31 - 2025-07-17 13:54
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Understood I understamd your POV. I was trying to not be too broad as there are many things behind
"toolchain pipelines" (build, test ,deliver) and if we are too broad it will be harder to get from
idea to implementation and actual impact (before Konflux comes in :slightly_smiling_face: ).

Message 32 - 2025-07-17 13:56
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
thank you both, so take it that we are all in agreement with the initiative description, next step
is to work on the stories/tickets that will lead up to an SLA

Message 33 - 2025-07-17 13:58
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
will one of those tasks be related to assessing the expectations of stakeholders?

Message 34 - 2025-07-17 13:59
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
I'll be getting input from some for the personas; I don't think we need tickets to fill out a ticket
:slightly_smiling_face:

Message 35 - 2025-07-17 14:14
From: Shir Fishbain
----------------------------------------
Hey folks, it would be great if you could make sure everyone has a chance to review the "Initiative:
Improving Infrastructure Availability" document before we move forward. It was just shared *this
morning (CET).* also related to https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886

Message 36 - 2025-07-17 14:15
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
:thinking:

Message 37 - 2025-07-17 14:16
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
@Shir Fishbain Shared where? It's still in progress and incomplete, as we're discussing here.

Message 38 - 2025-07-17 14:17
From: Shir Fishbain
----------------------------------------
It's seems like everyone agreement on the title and moving forward and I would like to give the
opportunity also for US time zone to give their review before we are have an agreement on something,
please

Message 39 - 2025-07-17 14:17
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
Paul generated the document with Gemini to provide some initial text for the initiative; I've reused
some of it but please, let's not use the document for anything, fractioning the discussion. We have
it in Jira.

Message 40 - 2025-07-17 14:18
From: Shir Fishbain
----------------------------------------
ok great, so only review the Jira, sorry for my confusion

Message 41 - 2025-07-17 14:19
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
I 'll go ahead and delete that doc now to avoid confusions

Message 42 - 2025-07-17 14:19
From: Shir Fishbain
----------------------------------------
ok, thanks!

Message 43 - 2025-07-17 14:46
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
@Paul Caramuto folks (EMEA/US timezones) might need more time to read the Jira
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886) content and discuss at least on the Jira content
before we move to adding tickets. I also raised some points there (about it being too broad), and
others did not have a chance to have a look yet on the Jira ticket and might need more time(as we're
all busy) to get in agreement before proceeding. @Shir Fishbain @Jim Bair @Robert O'Brien let us
know when you're done and your thoughts here so we can discuss if needed and know when it's time to
move forward.

Message 44 - 2025-07-30 11:05
From: Robert O'Brien
----------------------------------------
I have started a doc to list various monitoring related work we have done within ATC. Will need to
add more context to some of the work, but I wanted to start on gathering information on past work. I
will continue to update when I have reviewed more documents.
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eyirAAJE3N5dLJo_y3lHbRYDfO3iyJuPP8HrQFUsYUo/edit?tab=t.0

Message 45 - 2025-07-30 11:28
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Thanks @Robert O'Brien for starting this document on our current ATC monitoring efforts (created
before we considered SLA), as monitoring is key for any metric we want to measure or maintain to
comply with whatever SLA we decide on.
About: `folks (EMEA/US timezones) might need more time to read the Jira content and discuss at least
on the Jira content before we move to adding tickets.` @Jim Bair @Shir Fishbain @Paul Caramuto
@Robert O'Brien did you have a chance to go over the Jira initiative
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886) short description ticket and review it? I'm OK with
the current, please add :+1: or :-1: if you are OK with the content or not so we can move this
forward.

Message 46 - 2025-07-30 12:03
From: Shir Fishbain
----------------------------------------
Hey folks, Jim is on PTO most of the week. He will be back tomorrow, and I will ping him then about
reviewing the Jira initiative. Thanks for the reminder, Avi.

Message 47 - 2025-07-31 13:00
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
BTW, About the Jira initiative (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886) first work item: `The
implementation of this initiative should be split into two parts:Objective assessment of the status
quo. We should identify all components in the RHIVOS toolchain pipeline, including those that are
external to the project (e.g. shared with RHEL).` Juanje and @Ozan Unsal created an EPIC for the
`identify all components in the RHIVOS toolchain pipeline` VROOM-22346 - Dependency mapping for the
product pipeline/release build (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-22346) (50% done) we can
link/leverage torwards with the SLA initiative. We planned VROOM-22346 - Dependency mapping for the
product pipeline/release build (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VROOM-22346) for Q4 but if we have
capacity, maybe we can prioritize it back, up to you @Petr Sabata.
Also saw an intresting mail about: `Petr Sabata using Claude Code to debug build issues in RHIVOS
pipeline. Impressive results` @Petr Sabata Can you share with the ATC team/Demo/weekly somewere more
about this one? If we can improve how we debug/respond to build issue it can improve our SLA's for
debugging/fixing issues as well

Message 48 - 2025-07-31 14:24
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
Back from PTO - I'll add some comments into AUTOBU-886 here shortly :slightly_smiling_face: Not sure
how much I have to add but I'll add what I can

Message 49 - 2025-07-31 14:25
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
Also, any thoughts about moving this from a group DM into a channel? Maybe something like
#wg-auto-toolchain-sla or #wg-auto-toolchain-availability

Message 50 - 2025-07-31 14:40
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Welcome back @Jim Bair! :partying_face: Thanks for looking into AUTOBU-886, comments are most
welcome! I liked `#wg-auto-toolchain-sla` , can you set it up and jumpstart us on the new channel. I
think current folks from here can be a good start as members and we'll need to add more (at least
ATC leads as we grow)

Message 51 - 2025-07-31 14:49
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
@Avihai Efrat I think you can migrate this channel into there from the top menu in this "channel"

Message 52 - 2025-07-31 14:50
From: USLACKBOT
----------------------------------------
@Jim Bair created this channel from a conversation with @Avihai Efrat, @Robert O'Brien, @Jim Bair,
@Paul Caramuto, @Shir Fishbain, and @Petr Sabata.

Message 53 - 2025-07-31 14:50
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
Neat; it let me do it :slightly_smiling_face:

Message 54 - 2025-07-31 14:51
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
I do not have access to make it a public channel though; I suspect whoever started it can do that

Message 55 - 2025-07-31 14:51
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
has renamed the channel from "wg-auto-toolchain-sla" to "wg-team-auto-toolchain-sla"

Message 56 - 2025-07-31 14:58
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
@Paul Caramuto as this thread intiator , maybe you can help and change it to public ?

Message 57 - 2025-07-31 15:20
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
also don't have access...

Message 58 - 2025-07-31 15:21
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
we can always start a new one as public

Message 59 - 2025-07-31 15:23
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
I always prefer to keep context unless there's a reason not to. I bet someone has access to
:slightly_smiling_face:

Message 60 - 2025-07-31 15:24
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
https://slack.com/help/articles/213185467-Convert-a-channel-to-private-or-public

Message 61 - 2025-07-31 15:24
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
By default, owners, admins, and Channel Managers
(https://slack.com/help/articles/8328303095443-Understand-Channel-Managers-in-Slack) can convert a
channel to private, but owners can restrict this
(https://slack.com/help/articles/115004988303-Adjust-channel-management-permissions). If you can't
convert a channel to private, find an owner
(https://slack.com/help/articles/360003534892-Browse-people-and-user-groups-in-Slack) and ask for
help.

Message 62 - 2025-07-31 15:25
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
but if we are unable to, then we can rename this to the same name with -private or something and
fire up a new one :smile:

Message 63 - 2025-07-31 15:47
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
while we figure this out, shall we get the ball rolling with AI? Was thinking of listing possible
tickets (and leveraging the work we've done) on a google doc
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KW_CS9MaOfcbzg3srGFQ2BUMrnxquIUQSzyVm_d2K_w/edit?usp=sharing)
where we can all add comments before translating that back into Jira.. wdyt?

Message 64 - 2025-07-31 15:52
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
@Petr Sabata, I know you already have ideas about the kind of tickets you want to see, and the AI
list might feel like overkill, so feel free to let us know how we can support you. @Jim Bair, if
there are any areas where you think you could help us get started, we'd really appreciate your
input.

Message 65 - 2025-07-31 16:07
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
@Avihai Efrat I did share it in #C04QWCWQNJY| back then, I think (or the other forum). But the code
is here: https://github.com/contyk/watswromg And the slides are here:
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mo2q_pGA04WypVq7wUeUY5480XzSxvVw9OZtwauTaZM/edit?slide=id.g30e84f14e68_0_7037#slide=id.g30e84f14e68_0_7037

Message 66 - 2025-07-31 16:07
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
Ozan was plugging something similar into the pipeline, with Gemini, I think.

Message 67 - 2025-07-31 16:09
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
@Paul Caramuto I don't have specific ideas about the work items here, just at the high level:
• investigate first, gather what is key for our delivery and set up monitoring, gather metrics • in
the second phase, identify the low hanging fruit to achieve maximum improvement • also based on
these activities, establish SLAs we can all agree to, and continuously improve later on • also, for
the use cases, it's the personas I still haven't added; will do so before I leave for the weekend
:slightly_smiling_face:

Message 68 - 2025-07-31 16:10
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
But they won't be particularly detailed, so not a game changer for the work.

Message 69 - 2025-07-31 16:25
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
I've added a handful. More ideas welcome but this should capture the core idea.

Message 70 - 2025-07-31 17:25
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
sounds like a great starting point @Petr Sabata

Message 71 - 2025-07-31 19:16
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
All great ideas @Petr Sabata and @Paul Caramuto .
“investigate what is key for our delivery “ is indeed the first step but we need to clearly define
what our delivery actually means ( FuSa delivery , Release delivery, Customers/partner/partners
delivery.. etc) is too broad (as we have multiple services (not to mention dependencies) to monitor
and if we get to broad we will not be able to do much till Konflux migration takes over (mid 26).
To help with getting valuable feedback and fast POs(stakeholders) major concerns/breakage
points/services can be the starting point on what to monitor.
As the build pipeline was the first thing mentioned by @Petr Sabata, maybe we should start there
with a dependency map of other services the build pipeline (DPAC) depends on (pungi , brew,
gitlab/AWS runners, RHIVOS webserver, , S3 infra buckets, testing farm ,flasher, boards..) WDYT ?
There are also other services I heard from FOA folks(webserver ), or QE( test console, flasher,
boards etc) .
My point is we should start with a list of services coming from stakeholders/POs first and *narrow
it down* , investigate and plan what is achievable to monitor and improve as we do not have infinite
time with Konflux mid26 migration.
@Jim Bair will you be able to reach out to Steve L and me/Paul can ask Pier and we can add all the
stakeholders requirements (critical services and expectations) as a first step in a doc , then add
to the BU ticket? Just so we’ll have it all in one place.
If we focus and clearly define that delivery = release/nightly builds services and dependencies at
least as a starting point we might have a chance to monitor , get the baseline and bottlenecks and
improve before Konflux arrives and leverage work already done there.

Message 72 - 2025-07-31 19:25
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
@Avihai Efrat should be having a beer instead of working on a Thursday night.

Message 73 - 2025-07-31 19:27
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
I’m logging out @Petr Sabata :beers: my Mind keeps pulling me in .. have a great weekend all
:heart_hands:

Message 74 - 2025-07-31 19:43
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
Under the Program personas, I'm not sure this applies: • Risks: loss of business, fines Do we risk
fines? If so, that is news to me.

Message 75 - 2025-07-31 19:44
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
And yes, I can speak with Steve to get his perspective as a stakeholder/PO in regards to ATC

Message 76 - 2025-07-31 20:47
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
`Risks: loss of business, fines` in our world this means some people getting pissed off, or risk of
missing Release target end dates (but good catch Jim)

Message 77 - 2025-07-31 21:01
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
`And yes, I can speak with Steve to get his perspective as a stakeholder/PO in regards to ATC`
great. I already shared with him the autobu-886 ticket, told him we just started working in this,
and invited him to review the ticket description.

Message 78 - 2025-07-31 21:11
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
btw, asked Gemini to simplify the wording (looks cleaner now): Initiative: AUTOBU-886 - Improving
RHIVOS Pipeline Availability
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KW_CS9MaOfcbzg3srGFQ2BUMrnxquIUQSzyVm_d2K_w/edit?usp=sharing)

Message 79 - 2025-08-07 14:26
From: Robert O'Brien
----------------------------------------
set the channel description: Improving Infra availability
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886

Message 80 - 2025-09-08 15:45
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Hi there :wave: Long time no see :eyes: This channel is too quiet for a MUSTDO initiative as
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886 (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTOBU-886) :wink: How
are we doing here @Jim Bair @Robert O'Brien ?
Last time I think we mentioned the following plan , just to make sure we’re synced , in this order
as each step depends or the prior one: 1. Discuss with 3 verticals stack holders- POs (Petr, Steve,
Pier) to get the broad requirements , pain points and expectations. 2. refine and setup a doc with
SLO/SLIs of a set of critical services behind “infrastructure availability” 3. setup or use existing
monitoring for those identified critical services 4. get the “current state of things “ via
availability on the critical services so we can have a benchmark to measure our improvements going
forward 5. This step can and will be done in parallel- improving the critical services (we already
know about some of them: pipelines, artifacts storage, gitlab /AWS runners we use for building
releases,autoSD webserver, RHIVOS webserver) Let’s get back on the this MUSTDO horse :racehorse:
Lets us know if you have capacity or other concerns and we’ll get you covered by the team or me/Paul
.

Message 81 - 2025-09-08 15:47
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
@Petr Sabata remind us what’s the expectation, priory to get this done ?

Message 82 - 2025-09-08 15:47
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
@Robert O'Brien @Jim Bair where are we with the plan? Did we finish step1 yet?

Message 83 - 2025-09-08 15:48
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
Priority is relatively high. The timeline we discussed was Q3 for the initial investigation +
monitoring setup, Q4 to begin addressing the main pain points/low hanging fruit, i.e. starting to
really improve things. And by the end of Q4 we should have an idea what SLAs to establish.

Message 84 - 2025-09-08 15:52
From: Juanje Ojeda
----------------------------------------
@Juanje Ojeda has joined the channel

Message 85 - 2025-09-08 15:52
From: Eitan Raviv
----------------------------------------
@Eitan Raviv has joined the channel

Message 86 - 2025-09-08 15:52
From: Hubert Stefanski
----------------------------------------
@Hubert Stefanski has joined the channel

Message 87 - 2025-09-08 15:52
From: Kanitha Chim
----------------------------------------
@Kanitha Chim has joined the channel

Message 88 - 2025-09-08 15:52
From: Roni Eliezer
----------------------------------------
@Roni Eliezer has joined the channel

Message 89 - 2025-09-08 15:52
From: Ozan Unsal
----------------------------------------
@Ozan Unsal has joined the channel

Message 90 - 2025-09-08 15:54
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Added more folks to be aware of this ^^  Let’s hear from @Jim Bair and @Robert O'Brien first

Message 91 - 2025-09-08 15:56
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
@Petr Sabata as one of the stakeholders do you already have a list of critical services and a
starting SLO/SLIs for those services?

Message 92 - 2025-09-08 15:59
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
We can start from there. Just to note , There are multiple activities to improve many services for a
while now.. but it seem we jumped ahead of a proposed set of services to monitor and metrics
(SLO,SLI) .. so we’re improving greatly! But not monitoring most of it

Message 93 - 2025-09-08 16:24
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
@Petr Sabata maybe it’s best to explicitly add the expectations and deadlines in the AUTOBU so all
folks are synced .

Message 94 - 2025-09-08 17:02
From: Petr Sabata
----------------------------------------
@Avihai Efrat Ideally we should interview the persona representatives; although if we need something
to start with, I guess I could act as a package developer.

Message 95 - 2025-09-08 17:27
From: Robert O'Brien
----------------------------------------
I started this document today
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZdLvj8pIdv6KTSsvp9LmCyp_PkVXac-Hbm1UCw-n7cs/edit?tab=t.0 which
references a couple of other previous docs and diagrams Invite sent to Petr for tomorrow, to help me
better understand requirements from other perspective.

Message 96 - 2025-09-08 17:51
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Thanks for sharing @Robert O'Brien ! It’s a solid first draft but we need stakeholders data in there
to get to the list of critical services fast so we can move to implementing monitoring on the
selected list of services. Can we add a sign off list there with all stakeholders (POs) as first
ones or any other mentioned persona and get that at least reviewed by EOW?

Message 97 - 2025-09-08 18:06
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
You can add me as engineering manager ..  I’ll be :zap: quick

Message 98 - 2025-09-08 19:21
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
There are some comments I would like to add, please open this for comments @Robert O'Brien .
_*After*_ *you get to a set fof critical services:* You’ll need to define and refine in that
proposal or draft a new one with details for the services criticality levels (SLO/SLA) per service
meaning : what “available” service objective clearly data driven as clearly as possibly possible
leveraging SRE terminology which is built for it as SLO and SLI per each if the critical services
the stakeholders agree on.
In the context of infrastructure availability, an SLI (Service Level Indicator) is the specific
metric you measure, such as the percentage of successful requests in web servers ,nightly pass rate
etc . The SLO (Service Level Objective) is the target or goal you set for that metric over a
specific period, for example, achieving a 90% success rate over a month for etc . Essentially, the
SLI is the "what" you measure, and the SLO is the "goal" you aim for.

Message 99 - 2025-09-08 19:36
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Let’s stick to measurable metrics and refine general statements as: “releases should be available
for internal and external users” to what services need to be available with what metric should be
used to measure them( SLI ) ,what is an acceptable availability measurement (SLO )for that to
happen? This will help us define and continually measure where we are and how much we improved or
not data based per critical service(web servers, pipelines, runners etc )
For example part of internal users releases availability depends on our RHIVOS webserver
availability, breaking it down to SLI/SLO lingo: SLI= webserver availability measured by an error
rate of failed requests SLO (which is the target of the SLI)= Maintain a successful request rate of
at least 99.95% over a 30-day period
Another important thing to define is error budget. The error budget is the amount of acceptable
unreliability calculated from Service Level Objective (SLO). For instance, with an SLO of 99.9%
availability, your error budget is the remaining 0.1% downtime. This budget dictates l team's
priorities: when it's healthy, you can release new features(whatever is your usual our usual D2D
work ), but when it's breached, all work stops to focus on fixing the service’s reliability. Thus
needs to be clearly defined and agreed with stakeholders and program to get that mandate to switch
to error mode instead of developing RHIVOS2 features for example.

Message 100 - 2025-09-09 15:08
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Hi @Robert O'Brien, Saw you comment about the suggested signoff names, thanks for asking!
I added my thoughts there but for moving faster sake I'll also add my thoughts here and ask @Petr
Sabata to ACK so we can advance faster.
```has there been any discussion about the appropriate people to sign-off on SLO/SLA ?``` `AFAIK,
there was no discussion about the appropriate people to sign off SLO/SLA but it should be pretty
strait forward from the persona list and initial agreement that stackholds are the 3 Vertical POs (
Petr, Steve, Pier).`
`The list you mentioned looks good and personal-based.` `I would also suggest adding our initial
stakeholders - each Vertical POs ( Petr, Steve, Pier)` `About the names, I can suggest the
following(see attachment):` `Petr Šabata Please confirm/add or revise.`

Message 101 - 2025-09-09 15:09
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
[No text content]

Message 102 - 2025-09-09 21:04
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
ACK received, thanks @Petr Sabata on the list Had a look in the proposal and added comments for both
@Robert O'Brien and @Petr Sabata . as I mentioned above we need to refine the proposal and make it
very clear on what are the most critical services each eith a matching realistic SLI,SLO and error
budget and what that means for the team and program . NO service can realistically be 100% available
(checkout Google SRE (https://sre.google/sre-book/embracing-risk/)handbook
(https://sre.google/sre-book/embracing-risk/) chapter3 end Key Insights). This is a fundamental
principle of Site Reliability Engineering (SRE). Even the most robust systems will experience some
level of downtime, whether due to hardware failures, software bugs, network issues, or necessary
maintenance like security patches.
Let’s get to a more clear state on what we are actually proposing fast. A part of it is to Identify
a Short list of 5 top critical services under our ATC control we already work to improve for
building releases so we can move quickly to implement monitoring and not wait for the proposal back
and forth. If the proposal will add new services we’ll add them to the monitoring list afterwards.
Looking at the Epics added to this initiative I think we already know what they are, let’s start
with them first, WDYT?

Message 103 - 2025-09-09 21:07
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
We do NOT need to be perfect and have all the services monitored or identified (that would be nice
in a perfect world with infinite time for completion) but not for this short term initiative to be
concluded in Q4 with mass holidays and other MUSTHAVES initiatives in parallel

Message 104 - 2025-09-09 22:27
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
!channel, alright, thanks for all the comments and Robert for drafting that document putting things
into perspective. let me sum it up:

Message 105 - 2025-09-09 22:33
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
Q4: our focus is narrowed to the build pipeline. To support this, and get the ball rolling Robert
and Jim will draft a proposal for our top 3-5 pipeline services

Message 106 - 2025-09-09 22:34
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
the draft should include: • Realistic SLOs/SLIs for each service. • A defined Error Budget Policy
(what happens when we miss our target). • A clear "Out of Scope" section.

Message 107 - 2025-09-09 22:39
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
are we all on the same page? @Avihai Efrat, does this cover what you are thinking? @Petr Sabata,
could you confirm the focus is stability and speed of our release-building pipelines?

Message 108 - 2025-09-10 00:44
From: Juanje Ojeda
----------------------------------------
I added a comment to the document, but I'll comment about it here as well. We need to be clear about
what "the service" is. I think we're mixing things. • The autosd artifacts web service (CloudFront)
is a service. • The rhivos web server is a service. • Having a working Gator that can gate the
packages is a service. • Test Console up&amp;running, and able to run tests and show results is a
service. • A pipeline that is able to run on demand (e.g. triggering a release) or periodically
(nightlies) is a service. • Having green pipelines is NOT a service. The pipelines, by definition,
will fail from time to time and It's fine. They're meant to detect problems in the composes,
packages or images. So they're not expected to be green X% of the time. It'd be nice, but also
pointless.

Message 109 - 2025-09-10 13:59
From: Jim Bair
----------------------------------------
I reviewed the doc yesterday afternoon but I saw Avi working late to add comments and when I looked
this morning before starting my morning, I saw some movement as well :slightly_smiling_face: I
mostly was curious who the stakeholders are; I see per-area sign-off. Do we consider the table a
complete list of the stakeholders for ATC SLA?

Message 110 - 2025-09-11 14:49
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
so, the immediate action plan as I see continues to be drafting a proposal for the top *3-5
critical* pipeline infrastructure *services* (our overall goal for this exercise is to improve the
reliabitlyt of our build pipeline infra)

Message 111 - 2025-09-11 14:50
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
*CLARIFICATION*: Per Juanje's point, we are measuring the availability of our tools and systems, not
the "_greenness_" of pipeline runs. A pipeline that fails because of a bug in the code is a success
for the infrastructure. good examples of services: GitLab runner availability, Test Console uptime,
the web server that hosts artifacts.

Message 112 - 2025-09-11 14:51
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
so, to summarize Avi's latest comment, *how* are we doing this:

Message 113 - 2025-09-11 14:51
From: Paul Caramuto
----------------------------------------
• Classify each infrastructure service using the C1, C2, or C3 criticality tiers. • Apply the
corresponding SLO target (e.g., 99.59% uptime) to each one. • Define the Error Budget Policy for
what happens when a service breaches its SLO.

Message 114 - 2025-09-16 12:40
From: Lei Wang
----------------------------------------
@Lei Wang has joined the channel

Message 115 - 2025-09-17 12:03
From: Avihai Efrat
----------------------------------------
Sharing post SRE conference this very important SLA/SLO/SLI subject from a very experienced
principal SRE Lisa for involved folks to leverage the knowldege there.
Presentation link:
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vjhnOo_4v632RkgMulfhMYCFFb1DiHtlcMCFPD3PzmA/edit Recording
link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/13KT_GJkU-voUpde38p5CKncVwWh1YhdV/view
@Robert O'Brien do we have a list of ATC services from your stakeholder discussions we should focus
on? Can you share the conclusions so we can get closer to a critical service short 3-5 service list
which are under our control?
Once we have the service list there, I kindly advise to do the folloing per selected Service : 1.
Classify the service using the C1, C2, or C3 criticality tiers[1][2]. 2. Figure out and document
clearly: a. SLI(what we will measure e.g uptime, latency, error rate, etc) that will reflect clearly
stakeholders distruption of service. b. SLO target (e.g., 99.59%) that will be an early warning sign
that that service will be BEFORE users/stakeholders' service experience is degregated (a red warning
sign) c. Error budger: Which is 1- SLO (or 100% -SLO) which is when we should stop ATC feature
development work(to fix infra long term) and switch to short term RCA, fixing till the service is
recovered. [1]
https://source.redhat.com/departments/it/technology_resilience/technology_resilience_wiki/service_criticality_classifications_comment_version
[2]
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ErtvKfcj9dwzyxHN8DcyNDWjLkWAQZU90e1cph5_q8I/edit?tab=t.0#bookmark=id.ic4g1ibyv9tg

